---
title: Everyone is an economist!
draft: false
date: '2018-08-15'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-95916.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Economist
  - Job
  - Economics
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Economist, those fascinating people spouting off what seems like an alien language when discussing housing, the stock markets, the country, the world. After years of schooling, they learn all they can to go out and be a fighter for the people, to guide and recommend what would be best for the public. It’s not just lingo spitting, business suit wearing professionals out there that are economists. Everyone is an economist! I don’t mean that everyone is an economist in the way that I may say everyone is a legal expert. (If you want proof of that just go look up a video of an officer involved shooting, you’ll find some of the best legal experts in the world in the comment section of YouTube). No, I really mean, at some level, everyone is an economist. Quickly though, what exactly does an economist do? At is most basic, most simple, and economist is like a comprehensive decision maker. They conduct research, evaluate data, monitor trends, and predict outcomes. Then they may try and effect that outcome so that it is the best for their client (which could be anything form a small firm to an entire government). The other possibility may be that the outcome will be un-effectable or there is just not time to effect it so they instead position their client in a place where the outcome is at least beneficial to them. Back to economist "you". Remember this morning when you were reading about the latest in big business insider so that you could position your firm in a place that will be beneficial? No? Remember last night when you were assessing your child’s attitude at 8 pm to see exactly what kind of mood they would be in when it came time for bed? Instead of performing multiple regression analysis, you may be performing multiple Netflix options analysis. You may not be giving your insight on a multi-million dollar firm deal, but you may be giving your insight on a multiyear car loan deal. We are all economists. We take the information we have, evaluate and compare it to what is available, and try to adjust and make decisions that position ourselves for a better tomorrow. We weigh the pros and cons of theoretical situations we can find ourselves in like when we decide to take the longer way to work with less traffic lights over the shorter way with more traffic lights. Some of these decisions come instantaneously and maybe without much thought, like when that jerk cut you off so you laid on your horn. While others may take months to decide like should you move into an apartment or buy a house. College, major, job, city you live in, where you vacation, if you want the 6 oz or 8 oz steak, every decision you make is a little glimpse into the life of an economist. The biggest difference being that the only thing you may collapse is that 4 day streak without heartburn (thanks to that appetizer you knew you should’ve passed on) while some professional economist, if not careful, can collapse an entire nations finance system. Though this may not make you feel any better about say maybe the housing collapse of the late 2000's, hopefully it may at least bring a little more clarity into the mysterious world of economics and what economists do. Finally, one last bit, economics of a system can be controlled or manipulated form the available information. Its like one of your parents is CNN and the other is Fox and you want to go over to your friends house. What do you do? Evaluate the situation, do your best to get the outcome you want. If that doesn't work, maybe you go over to parent number 2 and change up that info a little bit in an effort to work your way to the preferred outcome. 
