---
title: The Social Dysfunction Surrounding Public Service Employees
draft: false
date: 2018-03-01T07:38:55-05:00
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-279979.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Public
  - Service
  - Daily Ponder
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
I started the day watching a video of a police officer and his dog take down two suspects that apparently stole a car, wrecked it, and attempted to run on foot. The officer didn't have time to wait for back up so he let his German Shepard out to play with the guy that ran while he apprehended the more submissive suspect. Eventually he was able to apprehend both suspects before backup arrived. It got me thinking, I want to write a public service article. But I didn't want the traditional thank you officers, soldiers, firefighters, ems, etc. as there are plenty of those. While they serve a very important purpose of recognition of the men and women that give their lives, both literally and in the economic sense of opportunity cost (what they may have devoted their life to otherwise), they don't seem to do much more than publicly saying thank you. Fast forward, and I'm listening to Jordan Peterson speak on how social justice is literally being ingrained in text books and academic courses. As the video progressed, he began discussing evidence, and that is where I draw the connection between the two. Dr. Peterson discusses how the definition of evidence is being changed as we know it. Evidence was statistical certainties, historical facts, evidence required a method to of evaluation to receive the title. Now evidence is anecdotal. Evidence no longer grows from research and analysis, it is simply the individual case studies of our every day lives that constitute as the grounds for matters such as making policy or claiming knowledge on a subject. The social disorder that comes from this is what we see on a daily basis. For instance, when someone tells you that black lives matters, and you respond with "statistic x" and "fact y" they don't just believe you. To them you are dismantling their person, you are destroying their personal experience and preforming a personal attack on them, all with the intent to push systematic hierarchy of race, religion, whatever the topic might be at the time. That's not the case at all, but that's what they believe.  You are destroying their life's work, the parameters in which they see the world, and that is why it can so quickly escalate to yelling, name calling, and even violent threats or violence itself. Where does this come from, this inherent feeling that these anecdotal experiences are not only the building blocks of ones life, but the systematic construct of society itself? Victimization and a perverted idea of fairness are fed by a lack of social values and morals. The when we see a white police officer shoot any minority, we see a politician campaign they want to stop abortion, or hear a firefighter/ems discuss their irritation about reviving the same heroin addict for the third time this week, these are not circumstance based actions or opinions. These are now personal attacks on an individual, the "victim" (in this case the person being shot, the mother having the abortion, the heroin addict), and the systematically oppressed society as a whole. This is a very serious matter, as a society it is something that needs to be discussed and reconciled before it gets more out of hand. At the same time it is such a difficult problem as the root has anchored itself from the "oppressed society" down to the individual victim, and everywhere else in between. As Ben Shapiro says "Facts don't care about your feelings," the progressives seem to be saying "My feelings don't care about your  facts" and furthermore, suggesting that their feelings are facts and the only ones that actually matter. We have now added some kind pseudo, I can only know what statements are facts when I see them, fact hierarchy of icing to the cake of social injustice. There is another aspect to this conversation that makes it infinitely more important. First responders need the support of their communities. Politicians, teachers, social workers, they all have very tough jobs. Police, Firefighters, EMS, Soldiers, etc. all have that plus the trauma that exists with it. They experience more tragic events in a week than most experience in a lifetime. They do this day after day, week after week, month after month, eroding away at their mental fortitude. On the outside they are brave, tough, strong, men and women that the society should be looking up to and supporting. On the inside, they can't be left alone, and social battering and belittlement cannot be accepted.


<sub><sup>https://youtu.be/jIOX1hVRE8Y</sub></sup>
