---
title: 'Free Lunch Tastes Good, Does It Not?'
draft: false
date: '2018-03-10'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-257840.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Free
  - Lunch
  - Daily Ponder
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
You’ve likely heard it time and time again, there is no such thing as a free lunch. That’s exactly what will be discussed in todays Daily Ponder, NOTHING and I literally mean NOTHING is free. We will dissect that a bit and look at policy to get a real understanding of the consequences of our actions. Let’s begin with something simple that most, if not all of us have experienced at some time in our life. You receive a gift, a birthday card, whatever it is. It could be money, it could a physical item, it could be a relative visiting from a different city or state. In the sense that you had to do nothing for it, it was free. But the cost, the time, the labor it took to get that gift to you all cost something. I think that is an example we all simply understand. A different situation, say you don’t have a job. People are telling you, go find a job, it costs nothing to just go look for a job. In today’s world with the internet and capability to work places you don’t have to physically be, its easier than ever to at least look. But its not free. It takes time, effort, and sometimes you must rely on the charity of others (in this sense, maybe driving you or as a reference) to make progress. Again, pretty simple and the benefits generally massively outweigh the costs.  Time for an area a bit more complicated. You have a credit card and you charge money to it, as long as you pay it off, that’s free correct? In the sense of dollars lost, yes, it’s free. When you charge money to a credit card you are gambling in two ways. One, you are stealing from your future for a luxury today. Even if you pay that card off completely, the moment you charge a credit card you are putting a lean on the work you do in the future. Second, you are assuming that the situation you live in now will remain constant or improve. One thing happens, and you may end up finding yourself in a hole and the only way you believe to escape is by digging. Another seemingly free lunch, lowering taxes, there’s a new tax plan coming out, say its going to reduce taxes for 80% of Americans. Well that’s free right? You work for your money, the government takes your money, you’re just getting more of it back. Sorry, no its not free, and unfortunately its going to cost one way or another. One way it’s not free is very apparent, it is a cut in services. Maybe social security needs cut, or maybe it comes in a reduction in government supplied health care. What ever it is, this way is a very apparent and an in your face cost from a reduction in taxes. Some may agree with this, like myself. I believe that states should have more power and rule over systems like welfare instead of the federal government, but that’s another article in itself.  The second, and much worse way, is deficit spending. This is like the credit card, but on an entire new level. This is because deficit spending has an effect that costs every single person in the world that uses the US dollar and hurts the poor much more than the rich. Deficit spending involves borrowing money, most of the time some of this borrowed money comes from the United States Federal Reserve. The Fed, as its referred to, makes money, they don’t actually have any. When money is made it increases the total supply, making each dollar worth that much less. For example, say there’s 10 people in the world and $100. Say groceries cost $1, a car cost $3 and a house cost $5. We’ll put the distribution of money roughly how it is today. 1 person has $80, 4 people have $3.75 and the reaming 5 have $1 each. Say the government wants to help so they dump $100, through deficit spending, into the economy and the distribution stays the same. Now 1 person has $160, 4 people have $7.5, and 5 people have $2. But because everyone had twice as much money, but nothing was produced from it, the dollar is worth half as much. The cost of groceries is now $2, a car is $6, and a house is $10. Relatively speaking, nothing has changed because the price of everything went up by the factor that money was created into the economy. THIS IS NOT AN ATTACK ON CAPITALISM OR WEALTH INEQUAILITY. This is just a very simply representation of inflation, in reality it is often worse than this because often wages don’t go up with inflation, so the poor are actually making less. I strongly suggest you read my articles on working, money, poverty, and economic systems because as stated this is not an attack on capitalism or any suggestion that we should have minimum wage, wealth redistribution, and/or higher taxes. This is simply a representation of how the current system of deficit spending is the worst cost we face from the free lunch attitude a lot of people have. As stated, nothing is free, nothing at all. NO matter what you think, no matter what anyone tells you, absolutely nothing is free. If you live your life with this in mind, you may likely find yourself making better personal economic decisions. I hope you enjoyed my article, and as suggested, please go read my articles on other economic topics so that you understand my cumulative economic view.
