---
title: Quick Thoughts and Initial Impression of Graduate School
draft: false
date: '2018-08-29'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-356086.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Graduate
  - School
  - College
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
As stated in one of my original posts on Rude Thoughts, one of the biggest aspects of this blog is for self-growth. I enjoy sharing my thoughts and debating with people on policy, economics, or just about anything. I use this blog as practice and for public critique to strengthen my writing, arguments, progression of logic and thought development. I am 2/3 the way through my first week of graduate school and I thought it would be a good idea to share my first impressions. Continue reading and I’ll discuss aspects of the class, things that surprised me, things that didn’t, and expectations vs reality. 

To begin, my first class, Gender and Economic Policy in International Comparison, I went in open minded. I had a guess at topics the class would likely focus on and views it would lean to, but I didn’t want to assume.  Well…...right after the syllabus, topic 1, “What is Gender”? Now this was somewhat expected as no matter what you are discussing it is important to define the terms, so everyone understands the context in which to discuss. This is where my initially thoughts started to play true, and the class so far, has very feminism focused discourse. All of that is fine with me, I may not agree, but I’m not afraid to debate with anyone or question the professor in ways intended to generate discussion, not start screaming matches. But, when the professor starts by talking about how statistics can be manipulated to support basically any agenda, yet then continues to spout off gender pay gaps “statistics” and gender differences in professions without using any sources or explanation, while also continuously referring to the 19th through the mid-20th century as if nothing has changed over the last 70+ years,  well let me just say I think the class will be interesting. Development of Economic Thought, this class is interesting. Most of the people the professor has stated we will discuss, I have personally researched them and read some of  their writings. What shocked me about this class was that we have a group project. I am not opposed to it, I just had the impression that the more advanced education you pursue, the more and more research and papers there will be and the less scantrons and group projects there would be. At the same time, I am not concerned with this group project as I would be in undergraduate study as the maturity level of the classes seem much higher. I believe I will not run into the pasts problem like it feels like pulling teeth trying to get one of the members to contribute and actually do some work. Finally, my favorite class, Applied Microeconomics. To begin, the professor is awesome as he supports the efficiency and success of free and open markets. He discusses his studies and claims from his experience that markets do not fail, people fail markets. As I develop my thoughts on this, it itself will be an article I am sure. Plus, the first half of the class is calculus and the second half of the class is economics, I could live there. 

Obviously, I have my own biases, I will argue and disagree with some professors while completely supporting the idea others. I do not really care that much about the ideas aspect of the classes. That is something that can result in better discussion, reflection of thought, even someone changing their mind. There is one aspect of school in general though I found interesting. When I was younger, probably like most, I had this idea of what school is. The higher levels of education you strive to reach, the harder everything will be. The more studying, the more memorizing, progressively harder and longer tests, the more late nights fueled by coffee IV’s. Well, for me at least, it has seemed to be the opposite. As I’ve moved from high school, to undergraduate, to graduate level education the teachers have become way more relaxed. Due dates seem more flexible, in undergrad “there’s no excuse, other than you being dead, to miss a test” and in graduate school one of my professors literally said if we miss the midterm her just takes our final test grade and uses that as the midterm as well. Plus, I would assume it’s from general interest, the material is easier. Not easier in the since that you don’t have to study, and you just understand it the first time you see it. Easier in the sense that because you are, or at least should be I would guess, so devoted to the subject that you want to learn it at progressively higher levels, the interest and dedication make it easier to study. Homework and readings don’t feel like homework and readings. They just feel like you’re doing what you would like to be doing, but with a greater purpose than just personal interest. These are my initial impressions of graduate school. If you found it interesting, I do plan on writing a follow up near the end, closer to graduation.

Photo from [Pexels.com] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/architecture-building-campus-college-356086/)
