---
title: Update and My Thoughts on Media Surrounding David Hogg
draft: false
date: '2018-03-24'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-267350.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Media
  - David Hogg
  - Daily Ponders
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
If you are a regular reader, you may have noticed I’ve slowed down my output a bit. I am working to get back on track, but unfortunately the daily ponders have slowed as I was writing them on my lunch break, but now my lunch break has shortened due to a position change. Which leads me to my next update, my job. I have had an opportunity arise at work that may make it more beneficial to not go back to school. Now I am stuck in the daily mental tug-of-war as to what I want to do. Regardless, I want to keep up with the blog. But this may mean it’s not as focused on economics as much as initially intended. That is not necessarily a problem, as my most successful article to date was on gun control, and not economics. Which leads me to my next point. Obviously hot button current events are going to get more recognition than talk about the countries economic state. I will likely be moving over into more of what I think about current events. I will still attempt to incorporate how that effects aspects of the country like economics and public policy, hopefully the shift will get me the following while still staying within my personal interests and focus. 

Today short will be about media, what I think is going on with all these crazy kids out here, and of course David Hogg as mentioned. Let me get one thing straight right out of the gate, I don’t blame David Hogg. I don’t blame him for his actions, I don’t blame him for all the things he has said, and I don’t blame him for his recent publicity. I blame all the adults that surround him in his everyday life. This is for a couple reasons, to begin, I remember when I was in high school. I, like many, thought I knew so much though I now commonly refer to high school and the few years after as one big and long blur of stupidity in my past. David Hogg and these kids are trying to grasp reality, they are trying to build their view on life and the world. They don’t know much other than what has been taught to them in school, and out of nowhere with basically zero preparation or warning are expected to handle this devastating and horrific event. Move forward and we see the results today, overnight social media stars, more often of the left, that are pawned around the country, going from talk show to talk show, basically reciting the same thing over and over again. Whether you are of the left or the right, whether you are pro gun control, pro life, anti capital punishment, or believe in smaller federal governance, there is an evident breakdown in genuine leadership. Why hasn’t one for the adults that are surrounding these victims went to them and talked to them about the morality of what they are saying. Talked to them about how this is going to impact the rest of their life. We hear all the time that these kids will be the leaders on the next generation, well look at who’s leading them now. Adults are the ones allowing these kids to get on national TV and say atrocious things. As I’ve stated before, have we lost our sense of social values and morals. These kids need guidance and support, not someone planting seeds of division and an us and them mentality in their head. I don’t believe racism, destruction, violence, hate, are biologically inherent in the mass majority, like 99.9%+ of people. We are breeding it in disgusting ways. Watch interviews of many conservative journalist and they often speak about how they get death threats from people telling them things like they are going to tie them down and murder their family in front of them because they said something like white privilege doesn’t exist. Then we wonder how and why people like David Hogg come to be.  He hasn’t done what he’s done on his own. 
