---
title: Why I Hunt
draft: false
date: '2018-03-12'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-682373.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Hunt
  - Hunting
  - Passion
  - Daily Ponder
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
If you have read any of my articles, you may have noticed that the tags at the bottom describes me as a hunter and outdoors-man before aspiring economist. You can blame my father for this I guess.  As a child I spent every spring searching the woods for morel mushrooms and summer months in the wild mountains of Tyler County West Virginia. This was on about 100 acres of uninfected land, somewhere off a gravel road. The all but dilapidated white two story house had a wood burning stove that cooked our food and heated the house. We would spend our evenings in the indoor/outdoor screened in living room, playing with little plastic dinosaurs as the cool mountain breeze would blow through. In the day time my father would work a little here and a little there, often just making it habitable for the week. Most of the time, what needed finished first was the 2 1/2 foot tall weeds cut down to get to the house followed by a quick run through it to chase out all the critters. One time my mother, I believe it was, found a 6 foot long snake skin under one of the beds, so naturally we hung it on the wall. If you wanted water, it came from the hand pumped well tap behind the house, not too far from the outhouse..... I believe there was an electric well pump, but I don't really remember. There is ginseng still in the ground there, though the property has been sold since. We spent our time shooting guns, mushroom hunting, and a little squirrel hunting (though this was as the distant neighbors house). This is where it all began though, and since then I often find myself trying to figure out a way to get back there. Take a long jump, about 10-12 years or so, and I am working at Springfield Township. I was talking to a man there about hunting and he asked me if I'd be interested in bow hunting. I said sure, having no clue really what I was getting myself into or what to do. I love the outdoors, but I had never expanded hunting past .22 caliber small game hunting. We went to a pawn shop, he helped me pick out a bow, and that year I successfully harvested my first deer, a very young doe. Since then I've been hooked, while all at the same time at battle with the forces of man. I will not discuss non hunters much, because generally non hunters don't mind it, so long as its ethical. Then every so often there is a news story that casts dark shadows on the hunting world and there is an uproar about how cruel it is, or why is it even allowed. Then those same people that maybe use park trails or bird watch, almost always for free, don't realize that the majority of funding towards those luxuries comes from the sales of hunting licenses and tags and a voluntarily tax imposition on all firearms and ammunition to be used for wildlife conservation. Why I hunt. I hunt because I enjoy it, its not about killing, its no fun getting up at 430am when its 10 degrees outside. Instead of being man, on top of the world, you are just another part of it. Walking into the wilderness knowing you are no longer the alpha. You share space with coyotes, snakes, sometimes bears. They're not the cuddly and friendly as so many kids movies have made us believe them to be, and now you are with them. Not above, likely not beside, as not only could they eat you if they wanted, but you are now in their house. Which brings me to the meat of the conversation, literally. September of 2017, I made the decision that I would no longer contribute to factory farming. Since then every bit of meat that my finance and I have taken into our home has been from my hunting or from a local farm that meets our ethical standards. (there is one exception which is if another person spends their money and time to prepare a meal for us, we will eat it as we do not expect everyone to abide by the standard we set for ourselves) When you hunt you become a part of nature that is not possible at any other level. You are personally part of the cycle of life. You no longer hire the supermarket hit man to do your deeds for you. Taking a life is no small matter. When my hunt is successful, whether it be a bag limit of dove, a couple cotton tail rabbit, or fully mature whitetail deer, my success is met with empathy, compassion, and a feeling that just cant be described unless you are there. Overwhelmingly grateful for the ability to supply for myself and my fiance, met with the sadness of understanding I just ended a life. Some ask, why don't you just not eat meat? Well, that is a possibility, but I want to eat meat, I enjoy it, so if I'm going to eat it I am going to take responsibility for where that meat comes from. Also, as stated, I am fully engulfing myself into something I absolute love, the wildness of nature. I am part of nature, part of the cycle of life, on a level that no vegan, no vegetarian, no buyer of the supermarket hit man will ever be able to experience. I do not chastise people that live the lifestyles I described, I simply ask two things. One, let us educate each other rather than be at odds, it takes all kinds and a total vegan or carnivorous lifestyle is not sustainable. Two, stop the hypocrisy, as a hunter I see many people shame others for their decision to hunt as being cruel, all while shoving a factory farmed burger down their throat and wearing leather. The same goes for hunters as well, I won't get much into this, but on the inside of the hunting world, hunting id turning into a fight for the biggest antlers and the most exotic animals. For me, I have my standards and I try very very hard to stick to them. They are for personal reasons and I don't expect anyone, not even my fiance of she didn't want to, to abide by them. There is something that is hard describe that comes from supplying for ones self through hunting or even small scale personal farming. It so much different than just running to the store and buying your food, and I believe everyone could benefit from trying it at least once. Ask a hunter, talk to a local farmer, check out Donnie Vincent, you may be surprised.
