---
title: 'What Ms. Ocasio-Cortez Had Me Thinking About, a New Daily Ponder'
draft: false
date: '2019-01-07'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-277615.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Ocasio Cortez
  - Experience
  - Decisions
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Today at work, I was listening to the normal Peter Schiff podcast and 5 minute “tell us what’s going to happen with the economy with 100% certainty” news interview, and somewhere in there Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s name was thrown out. Many people have at least heard of her, but in case you have not, Cortez is a 29-year-old, Puerto Rican-American (this is important later), House Representative of New York’s 14th District. This includes parts of the Bronx, Queens, and Riker’s Island. She has lived basically her entire life in New York, though she did do some traveling shortly before becoming a House Representative. Finally, she holds a bachelor’s degree in international relations with a minor in economics. This information I have come to know through the multiple interviews I have watched over time, though it can also be found in the videos I will comment on. If you were unfamiliar with Cortez before, now you have a little background. If you were already familiar with her, it is likely you have an idea of her political ideas. Cortez is a democrat that shares great support with and from Bernie Sanders. I will make the claim that she is a supporter of “democratic socialism”, although I’ve never heard her say it personally. To refocus, I heard Cortez’s name come up and I thought to myself, most of the stuff I’ve heard about her has been in likely biased clips or quotes. Though I have listened to a few of her interviews, it had been a little while, so I thought I would take another look. I would do my best to ensure that my search found neutral or supportive results, to see what the spotlight looks like from that side. Here is what I did, and here is what I found out. 

First, I knew that 60 minutes interviewed her recently. So, I YouTube searched “Ocasio-Cortez 60 Minute Interview”. The entire interview had not been posted yet, but some short clips from it had, which you can find [here] (https://youtu.be/_HKhP0nzaAM) comparing her radical ideas to Abraham Lincoln and F.D. Roosevelt, and [here] (https://youtu.be/I-3Or473VPU) discussing how much she believes democrats have compromised. The second search, I simply typed in her name in YouTube and found [this interview] (https://youtu.be/_dyVxMmmMZE) where she discussed a little more about her upbringing, history, and how she became a politician. The reason I bring up these clips, Cortez, and my search into who she is is because basically we are flooded with the unforgiving current of biased media. But, at the same time, we are the ones controlling the floodgates. When I started RudeThoughts, I had many friends that didn’t completely agree with me. I never unfriended them because the things they posted gave me a window into what they were thinking and how they came to the beliefs they had. Slowly but surely, they began to unfriend and block me. While I don’t care and found it more amusing more than anything, they lost something they could’ve used as a training tool to make their arguments stronger in the future. They closed their own floodgate, because the water wasn’t coming from a direction they liked. That is what I am trying to avoid, that is why I went out of my way to search for these videos of Cortez.

Regarding her politics, I found no change in my support (or lack thereof) for her. I do not agree with her ideas and hopefully she does not have the opportunity to bring them to fruition as actual policy. Her ethnic background is presented as seemingly the most important aspect of her being a politician. Not her ideas and how they will affect new York and possibly the country, but instead being a Puerto Rican-American woman politician is what is most important. Personally, I understand why she may believe she needs to be proud of that accomplishment, but to me it does not matter one bit. To me a politician stands out based of morals, their beliefs, their pride in our great nation. I literally couldn’t care less if they are a man, woman, gay, straight, black, blue, green, I do not care. Maybe we should start running campaigns where you can never see the candidate. All you get is wiki page without the racial/ethnic background description and a page explaining their policy ides. Back to Cortez, he supports a very aggressive progressive tax, upwards of 70+ percent taxes on income above x-million amount of dollars. She makes the very common mistake of referring to the 1960s when some tax brackets were as high as 90 percent, but the write offs and deductions were much more generous then effectively allowing no one actually pay a tax that high. She continues with promoting her idea of 100% renewable energy and 0 reliance in fossil fuels in 12 years or less. Maybe she is right comparing her ideas as radical, considering the changes that would have to be made to accomplish this goal. Just a side note, the interviewer did ask her about that to ensure they understood her correctly. They asked her if she meant making every car on the road electric and supplying non-fossil fueled power to everyone and she indicated that was what she meant. Could you imagine trying to replace every single car on the road with an electric car in 12 years or less? Gas stations gone, charging stations at basically every house, all the perfectly working vehicles not being used, just to start the logistical breakdown. The concept seems to be more a statement of position than achievable goal. Her ideas are frankly nonsense, she seems to pull the ides of strong leftist and recycle/rebrand them as a young new idea to lead the future. I am basically not going to agree with her, which is fine, we’re different people. But it was the [third of the interviews] (https://youtu.be/_dyVxMmmMZE) where she began discussing her upbringing that really got me thinking and really what this daily ponder is about. She was discussing the hardships her, and her mother faced after losing her father and the help they needed at times to survive. Even though I don’t agree with her, even though she gets made fun of practically every day for something (just as every other politician does), I genuinely believe that she is trying to help. She is doing what she can to try and help the people that live how she did, or in even worse conditions. I think that’s what the majority of people are out there doing.  But we use the personal disconnection, the one-sided torrent of information, and an “us vs them” mentality to relentlessly combat the opposition. I probably won’t ever agree with her, and I will characterize her ideas as a see fit, just as I expect other to do when they read my ideas. But, I will stop there, as I would hope others would do too though I don’t expect it. These interviews reminded me and had me thinking most of the day, I don’t have to agree with or like Cortez, or anyone for that matter, but they are still people. They lived through a set of experiences that got them to the place they are today, and if you take the time to listen you may at least understand their ideas and positions a little more. 

Just a little reminder, Daily Ponders are like a journal. I write down my thoughts I have throughout the day to help you better understand how I develop some of my thoughts and ideas. This means they could come out of left field or possibly they could take sudden turns and I could be on a different topic. In this case my search for real, unbiased Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez content turned into a me thinking about how we choose to choose (no, that's not a typo) to see the world and how that may influence our relationships with other humans and how we treat them. Pretty interesting I think. 

Check out my [Facebook page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!

[Photo] (https://pixabay.com/en/doors-choices-choose-open-decision-1587329/) by [qimono] (https://pixabay.com/en/users/qimono-1962238/) through [Pexels.com] (https://www.pexels.com/) and [Pixabay.com] (https://pixabay.com/)
