---
title: 'Imagine Running Your House like the Government '
draft: false
date: '2019-01-20'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/thomas-kelley-63612-unsplash-1-.jpg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Government
  - Issues
  - Comparison
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
I spent most of the day moving around my “office”, so it could be called I guess, and getting it ready for the next adventure in the Rude Thoughts universe. If you are not sure what I am talking about or haven’t seen the pictures yet, head over to my [Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and check them out, you’ll know what I’m talking about when you see it. As I was saying, I was moving everything around and I was just thinking, imagine if you tried to run your house like the government. The debt, the international publicity, the illogical and just plain ridiculous events that occur, really just imagine. Don’t get me wrong, the government has a job. I’m just saying maybe, just maybe, they overstep the powers granted to them by the founding fathers, to put it lightly. But the point is, think about it, imagine trying to run you house like the government. 

First and foremost, I want to talk about debt. The government goes into debt, and more debt, and more debt, and more debt. Continuously cycling over short-term debt while “borrowing” from long term accounts that will likely never get paid back. Imagine, you’re a little short on cash, so first you get a credit card. Poof, just like that you have more money! But, like the government, you have made so many promises that you immediately max out that credit card on donations to this program and that program. You give some to homeless, some to the poor, some to your neighbor, and some to help the kid down the street get into school. Oh, and don’t forget, you promised to guarantee your neighbors debt as well. All of a sudden, you’re out of credit and cash, so what’s next? Your retirement is looking nice and hefty. You “borrow” from it, you know, just until times get a little better. You put that money toward other obligations, including interest but not principle of past debt, and suddenly and completely unexpectantly, you’re out of money. You have all your bills paid (kind of), but you can’t even find a decent pair of shoes to wear. You remember, there’s a shoe maker on the other side of town! You don’t have any money, but you go over there anyway and ask if he’ll give you a pair of shoes for future prosperity that is inevitable. He agrees and now you have those shoes you need. In the end what are you left with. To begin, you are left with the expectation AND obligation to help those people down the road that you did so nicely before. You are left with that ever-growing credit card bill. Finally, you are left with a portion of that assumed future prosperity you promised to the shoe maker across town. You are left with overwhelming and unfulfillable liabilities that cannot ever be realistically met. 

Now that you’re finished spending all your current and future money, you need to make good face. You need to run around the neighborhood ensuring that everyone likes you, or at least they are pretending they like you. Your relationships with all your neighbors, acquaintances, and enemies is next on the list. As stated before, the United States Government obviously has a very important role to play regarding national security and relations. But this plays into the ridiculous situations the nation gets itself into I mentioned before. Politically, we get ourselves into things that maybe didn’t really concern us while at the same time responding with the complete opposite effort regarding situations maybe we should’ve been involved in. I wont dive too deep into this as most of these “situations” are more or less opinion based whether you’re viewing from the left or right, but I believe you understand my point. What it really comes down to is politics. There are ideas, situations, or relationships that are in the better interest of the United States, regardless of what happened in the past. These political decisions don’t always make the most complete sense at the surface, but they may be more important than you could ever imagine. 

This is not a defense for anything and everything the government does. Nor is this an argument to bury the government for every e. The point is, next time most people criticize the government at every moment possible without first thinking, is this how you would run your household? Maybe you don’t like the relationship between the United States and another country, but also maybe there is that one coworker that is easier to act like you get along with than just take them on head to head. Maybe you should spend that tax return on some outstanding bills, but you know that TV is on sale. If you read more of my other thoughts and ideas, you’ll discover very quickly my opinion on many of the government’s actions. But this is just what I was thinking about today, this thought, this idea hasn’t been completed yet. Think about it for yourself, read what others think about it, and be on the lookout for a continuation of this topic. I may not agree with 100% of what the government does, but really who does? In my opinion, we are still the greatest country on this planet and I will be here for America every moment I can. 

Follow Rudethoughts on [Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!

[Photo] (https://unsplash.com/photos/on4Nkb-6HwQ) provided by [Thomas Kelley] (https://unsplash.com/@thkelley) on [unsplash.com] (https://unsplash.com/)
