---
title: 'Buying a New Rifle Leads to My Thoughts on Gun Laws, a Daily Ponder'
draft: false
date: '2019-01-09'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-864987.jpeg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Gun
  - Laws
  - Restrictions
  - Daily Ponder
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Guns, an always popular topic. If you are not aware, besides economics I thoroughly enjoy the outdoors. I enjoy small game, deer, and turkey hunting. I also like mushroom hunting (not just morels in the spring, I go all year round), hiking, fishing, and other outdoor activities like archery and shooting. I’ve been considering purchasing a new gun, rifle to be specific, for deer hunting. I’ve only ever hunted deer with a bow, but this year I was able to use a friend’s shotgun to hunt. While I wasn’t able to take a shot at a deer, I enjoyed it and that experience catalyzed where I am at now. I have always been somewhat aware of most guns laws, while paying particular attention to others as I have my concealed handgun license, or more commonly recognized as CCW. As I searched for this new deer hunting rifle and the stipulation in place, I began thinking about the entire gun argument in America. That is what today’s Daily Ponder focuses on, arguments regarding gun laws. For those shooters, hunters or both, here it was I have selected to purchase for this coming up hunting season. I am going with a [Mossberg Patriot] (https://www.mossberg.com/product/mossberg-patriot-walnut-28043/) bolt action rifle, chambered in .450 bushmaster with a walnut stock. Up top I will most likely be mounting a [Vortex 3-12x42 Diamondback HP] (http://vortexoptics.com/product/vortex-diamondback-hp-3-12x42-riflescope-with-v-plex-moa-reticle) scope with v-plex all-purpose reticle, although I am not completely sure on this yet.

Gun arguments, we hear a vast variety of them with corresponding variances of logic, or lack thereof much of the time.  I want to take a few of them and tell you what I think about them as this has been a reoccurring topic for me recently. To begin, “common sense gun laws” We hear it all the time, and more often from advocates of more strict gun laws. Something that struck me though, I don’t think anyone is against that. I actually think gun owners would absolutely love common sense gun laws. What we have currently is often the complete opposite. A couple examples would include taking a rifle a cutting the barrel and stock down for whatever reason. If you do this at your house, you could be committing a felony.  But if a gun manufacturer creates two identical guns with the exception of one being longer than the other, and the call one a rifle and one a pistol, no laws have been broken. Why is this a law that you can’t do it, but a gun manufacturer can? You receive no performance benefits from cutting down a gun and it’s not like the shorter versions are illegal, you can go buy one. You just can’t cut it yourself. Also, magazine restrictions. The lack of common sense surrounding magazine restrictions exists in the so called “logic” behind them. For instance, in many states there are 7,8,9,10 bullet restrictions to magazines. Why? Well, often for reducing gun violence is claimed. The lack of logic comes in at the number, why 7, or why 8? If the number of bullets a magazine can hold corresponds with gun violence, why in the world are we letting be as high as 7? Shouldn’t we just have all guns be single shots with no magazines. Or better yet, the only gun you can use is a muzzle loader. This makes absolutely no sense just like many current gun laws. They are not based on common sense, they are often based on reactionary policy manifested from a politician using their self-proclaimed moral superiority after some kind of mass tragic event involving guns. 

Next on the list is loopholes. If there is one hot button word many on the left like to use regarding gun laws, its loophole. I am going to try to define this. The definition of a loophole (regarding guns and gun laws): when you legally purchase a gun that someone from the left doesn’t want you to have and  thought they created a law prohibiting you from purchasing it. The funny thing about the term loophole is it is used to describe legal situations in which you obtain a gun someone else doesn’t want you to have. We don’t call illegal firearms dealing loopholes, we call them illegal. This relates with the lack of common sense gun laws. There are gun laws in place which you and gun manufacturers follow when guns are made and sold. As soon as there is the transfer of a gun that someone on the left doesn’t want you to have and suddenly, it’s a loophole. Then work is put into place to change the law, and the law gets changed. Again, you and gun manufacturers follow these new laws, and what is it? A loophole, that’s right! By following the laws that you don’t necessarily agree with but still successfully and legally obtaining the guns you want, that’s a loophole that must be closed. 

The last two are background checks and registration. We hear these two all the time, “we need back ground checks”, “we need gun registration, you have to register your car, don’t you?!?!” The first one is very easy to put to rest; background checks are required when purchasing a new gun. I don’t know why so many people think they aren’t. You can purchase a gun from a private owner without completing a background check, but there are still strict stipulations on those sales that can have the seller in trouble if the law is not followed. Furthermore, if they made it law that all gun sales, private or retail, must be accompanied by background check, how would that ever be enforced? You could sell a gun to anyone with cash and no one would ever know the transaction happened. The registration argument is what really gets me. The argument generally goes something like this “You should have to register guns like cars. For cars you must have registration, insurance, training. Why isn’t that mandatory with a gun?” To a degree a good point is made there, but they are missing one very important aspect. You only have to do all that if you plan on driving on a public road. If you buy a car and have it towed to your house where you never take it off your property, you don’t have to register it. You don’t have to have insurance, you don’t have to do anything, it’s your car on your property. So long as you don’t take it off onto public roads, it can sit there unregistered, uninsured, and a non-licensed driver can drive it. This is how I feel about guns, if someone wants 1 gun or 1000 guns, it’s no one’s business. But, if that person would like to carry one concealed out in public, then yes, there should be a program in place to ensure that they are capable of that, hence CCW/CHL laws.

I will finish this up as simply as I can, gun laws only effect those who follow them and that’s the common sense behind it all. It’s a paradox, gun laws are put into place to stop gun violence, which is already illegal. I don’t understand, there’s nothing common sense about it. Continuing to make gun laws stricter will only put those who follow gun laws at more of a disadvantage. The people breaking the laws already don’t care, making more isn’t going to do anything. I believe if gun laws are continuously tightened, eventually it will get to the point where law abiding gun owners will find themselves in the situation where they have to either break the law but still have their guns or follow the law at the expense of their constitutional right and personal security. I guarantee I know what the majority of lawful gun owners would choose, I know what I would choose. 

Check out my [RudeThoughts Facebook page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts)  and [follow me on Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)

[Photo] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/black-rifle-with-scope-and-brown-gig-bag-864987/) provided by [Alex Andrews] (https://www.pexels.com/@alex-andrews-271121) from [Pexels.com] (https://www.pexels.com/)
