---
title: Why be an Outdoors Man? Daily
draft: false
date: 2018-02-27T16:18:26.000Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/14908297_10210878985115859_5059444685567478332_n.jpg
categories: ponder
tags:
  - Outdoors Man
  - Nature
  - Hunting
  - Daily Ponders
comments: true
share: true
---
Its spring time, deer season is over and next in line are turkey and morel mushrooms. Like basically all of my articles, why is the question, why is it that I get out and do the things that I do? Getting up, sometimes hours before the sun rises. Sitting in the cold and wet, trying to hold in any warmth that I can with layers of camo and a thermos of coffee. I love it, being out in nature is hard to describe really. Those that do it and have done it can relate to this feeling, but describing it to the unexposed, basically impossible. For me, I can take that one step further, and higher. The mountains of Appalachia is where I really feel it. When you get away from the lights of the city, you can still hear the cars on the highway. You get away from the the noises of the highway, and your phone still has service. You get into the hills of Appalachia, you are truly alone. You breathe the air differently, they sky is a different blue, the nighttime stars.....simply unimaginable. From an economic viewpoint this seems inefficient, a waste of time, resources, and money. We wont get into the economic discussion of what makes you happy and why you do those things today. I will be making my argument for the outdoors man. Why I believe everyone should at least take sometime out of their day, week, month, and venture into the wild. 

To begin, I don't currently own a tent, though I have in the past. You don't need a map, a compass, you don't need to hunt, you don't have to do so much as put mud on your boots to enjoy the open and wild wilderness. Everyone in this country is a public land owner. The taxes you pay go towards the maintenance of public lands, to be used at your discretion (to a degree). Why not use them? Go for a walk at your reservoir, learn how to fish, take your kids to nature parks. You already pay for all of this, why not use it? Exercise, generally you need to be physically fit to some degree to do the things mentioned. You don't need to become physically fit to do them though. It starts with a short walk, then you start completing the mile loop. Next you're incorporating the stairs and before you know it you're going on half day hikes. Unless your hobbies currently include some kind of fitness bettering regiment to them, I think we all could agree that America could focus a little more on over all health. Say you do want to fish or hunt. For the minimum necessary, and not buying top of the line everything, you can spend $150 (this could even be lower if you bought used) for some fishing gear and licenses and have a meal a week covered for a year. The price point goes up a bit to get into hunting, but not too much, and if you're successful, your reward is often much greater. Look at my last few years of deer hunting. Unfortunately I cant include this year as I did not harvest a deer. The two years before that, I spent $300 on a bow and arrows, about $50 on tags, $40 on a tree stand, and about $250 on butchering. What did I get, I totaled out over 150 lbs of meat. This includes roasts, steaks, ground, summer sausage, jerky, brats, and more. Also the license covered hunting rabbit, squirrel, dove, turkey, and other small game. In total I bagged close to 175 lbs of meat and spent a little under $650. That's about $3.70/lbs of the most lean, free range, healthy meat you could ever have. This also does not include any of my fishing success which would overall lower that final per pound cost. You could butcher the meat yourself as well (as I've done in the past but requires more time than I have to devote to it right now) to cut that price nearly in half. 

We all could benefit from the outdoors a little more. Go bird watch, use the bike trails, kayak, rock climb, anything really. On top of all that has been mentioned, I strongly believe that if more people incorporated the outdoor into their lives, we would see a vast improvement in our societies. An overall increase in the demand to reduce pollution, an overall heightened level of social values and morals (this I believe would stem from seeing more people and animals live their everyday lives strengthening the sense of community), and people just being happier in general are just a few. The consequences of all this, maybe everyone's health insurance premiums go down because overall health goes up. Those expensive health stores that sell the local farmers food get a little cheaper because we start getting serious about the food we put in our bodies instead of ignorantly sharing news articles about GMOs while simultaneously shoving fast food fat burgers and liters of soda down our throats. Get away from your phone, stop reading this, walk to your local park and just get outside, what do you have to lose?
