---
title: Public Service Announcement
draft: false
date: 2018-01-31T17:34:56.000Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/IMG_3720.jpg
tags:
  - Economics
comments: true
share: true
---
**Public Service Announcement!**

I believe the American economy is in shambles. There are a number of issues facing our countries and the world’s economy today that hold potential for catastrophic consequences. The American economy is what this blog will discuss. While other issues will likely be discussed, such as social issues, politics, or public policy, economics is what Rude Thoughts sight will be focused on. Such claims require at least some proof and evidence. Rude Thoughts will be taking a look at the major economic issues in today’s world, break them down and attempt to solve them, or at the very least provide an alternative that moves the economic ticker towards the good instead of the bad. Using research, analysis, public polls, statistics, education, and experience, should provide a complete overview of whatever it is being discussed, all with the goal in mind to keep it easy to read and understand for you! While the areas of discussion are seemingly endless, there are some topics right out of the gate that you can expect to find reported on. An overview of historical economic crisis, along with a comparison of our economic status today is just one. Often times in the world of economics, professionals are ridiculed when expressing their foresight of an economic catastrophe. When we are experiencing economic prosperity, this ridicule can often be multiplied and shunned. Then once the crash occurs, there may be a minute of recognition, but it is often then overlooked and discussion is redirected into aggravation when attempting to determine why it happened. Taking a look at one my favorite and influential professionals, Peter Schiff, we see this pattern. Peter predicted the .com bubble of the late 1990s, the housing bubble of the mid to late 2000s, and currently discusses many bubbles that are building today (student loans, cryptocurrencies, the stock market again, and more). Peter is often criticized when attempting to paint the economic picture prior to the bubbles popping and then criticize again afterward when he is telling how it happened, though he’s been right time and time again. Why this happens is an entire conversation in itself. Some if the issues mentioned above, like the student debt crisis or cryptocurrencies, will be thoroughly examined and discussed with the goal being a complete exposure of their core strengths and weaknesses. Basic economics, equality, and Machiavellianism will all be discussed and more. The rebuttal to these issues, or parts of them at least, that may be rooted in today’s socioeconomic world will be fortified with the free market, libertarian, and conservative ideals. In a country of service spending, regulations, taxes, and a search for cosmic justice as Thomas Sowell might say, the next generation of conservative economic thinking needs more expression. There is a multitude of sources to find thinking form nearly all sides. I believe there is a lack of young economists willing to brush against the Keynesian gouged grain that runs across today’s college campuses and the world of economic thought. Rude Thoughts is here to fill that gap and to support the ideas more in common with the founders of this country rather than its occupants today.
