---
title: FD(Lie)C
draft: false
date: 2018-02-03T18:15:11.000Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/moneymoneymoney.jpg
categories: thoughts
comments: true
share: true
---
Understanding regulation and policy (R&P) is a critical aspect of understanding the economy today. As the choices we make dictate, directly or indirectly, the economy and the way it grows, R&P attempts to guide, subsidize, support, or discourage the choices of every contributor to the economy. With the massive number of R&Ps in place, I have to take them on one at a time, as to write an all-encompassing article would be to write a book. Just to name a few there is affirmative action, welfare, taxes, licenses, tariffs, spending, and much more. Basically, any modern social, government, personal, or business issue, in general, has R&P in place to affect it in some way previously described. This review will be an overall look at the FDIC. What it is, how it started, what does it do, and most importantly the effect it has on the economy today. Opposed to the title, the FDIC is not inherently bad. Most policy in existence today, and much that has been made through time is created to protect the citizen. Unfortunately, these policies are created out of empathy or are reactionary policies.  The hope here is to explain the unforeseen consequences of the FDIC and to step back and evaluate the positives and negatives of all of its effects. 

 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, FDIC, is an independent agency that was created by the federal government established in reactionary policy to the 1929 Stock market crash. The crash itself will be discussed in its entirety separately. The general explanation is that in the early 1900s, wall street was a group of wealthy men that traded capital back and forth. Liberty bonds were created by the federal government to help support World War 1. When the men of wall street realized the American people's interest and fascination with the liberty bonds, they introduced them to the stock market. The public, having basically no knowledge of how the stock market worked pumped the market full of pseudo value until it was realized that most stocks were overvalued. Coupled with the fact that brokers were pumping the stock market with only a 10% deposit required to buy stocks (you could buy $100 of stock with $10) from these ignorant investors. When it all began coming down and the brokers were demanding full pay, but no one had the money to pay. The brokers started selling off the stocks to reduce any possible losses and this further fueled the crash. Though it wasn’t the only cause, it is sighted as a major contributor to the great depression. Accompanied with the crash was a complete lack of trust in the market and investing. People losing their life savings from this catastrophe began pulling every bit of cash they had and saving it “under their mattress,” they’d basically hide it anywhere in their home. I once read a story about a couple who had always been told one of their relatives that lived during this time hid their money on their family farm. Nearly 75 years later, the family was removing an old dilapidated chicken house and found nearly $4000 in a suite case in the wall. Once people started pulling their money out of the banks, it didn’t take long for them to realize that the banks didn’t have their money. I suggest you read both my article on money and currency and my discussion of banking to develop a fuller understanding of exactly why the bank doesn’t have your money. If you didn’t get to the bank before they ran out, you were out of luck and lost all your money. These people would tell their family and friends and so they, in response, would run to their banks and do the same. The banks with no customers, no money, and facing complete asset liquidation just to delay the inevitable had to close. Between 1929 and 1933, over 9000 banks closed and all the depositors that didn’t withdraw their money simply lost it. In 1933, as part of the Glass-Steagall act, which prohibited banks from gambling depositor’s money, the FDIC was created. 

The FDIC simply insures depositors checking and savings accounts. There is more to it than this, there are limits and account type restrictions and more. The general idea of it is that it protects the everyday citizen by promising that if you deposit your money into a bank account and the bank doesn't have your money for basically any reason, the government will ensure your deposit so you don’t lose all your money. A large part of the economy is investment. When depositors put their money in a bank, the bank takes part of everyone’s account and loans it out to others to buy cars, houses, start businesses, etc. If the banks have no depositors then there can be only private investment from wealthy business owners, who generally invest in their self-interests. This is where we begin to truly look t the FDIC and why I titled this article the FD(Lie)C. The FDIC was created for a great reason, to protect the depositor. Unfortunately, there is a consequence to this guarantee that allows for risky financial practices. For the most part, banks attract customers by offering interest on savings, low interest on loans, and luxuries like free checking or ATM fee reimbursement. For the bank to make money they must invest, and they take the gains from the investments and give their customers the free checking they want. The FDIC has removed any checks and balances between the banks and their customers. Banks can basically invest in anything they want to, knowing that if there is a catastrophic failure, the government will be there to save the day. Customers don't look at banks records at all to see how responsible the bank is because they know that if there is an issue the government will be there to ensure their money. This has caused banks to turn into money machines. Every time a bank created a loan they are creating money. As stated earlier, a bank creates loans from depositor’s money. If you put $100 in the bank, the bank loans some of it out to invest, but your account balance still shows $100. The amount they must hold is called the reserve requirement. Today reserve requirements vary, but some accounts have a 0% reserve requirement meaning your account can show the balance you deposited into the bank, but the entire amount is loaned out to an investor.  

The FD(Lie)C removes moral responsibility to handle customers deposits, and customers have no real interest in who they bank with past the bells and whistles they offer. Imagine going to a casino, but before you walked into a seemingly very wealthy person stops you and says, they go ahead and bet whatever you want, ill cover all your losses if something happens. All you have to do is make sure you give me a small portion of any winnings (return on investments).  It is likely that you will be much riskier. This is what the banks do, often when they fail, they simply rebrand or merge, hiding the loss by keeping the customer uniformed because when they go to the ATM it still shows an available balance. In 2012 the Wall Street Journal estimated that depositors accounts had been paid to the amount of around $9 billion across 165 banks that were sold to larger banks amongst the preceding financial crisis. The banks play with our money at no expense to themselves under the guarantee that government will come in and save the day if they make a mistake. Responsibility from both sides of the banking system, customers to the bank and the bank to the customer, has been removed. Banks can take more risks with your money, even sometimes lending it all out. Finally, though it is difficult to know the exact amounts due to measuring techniques, currency conversion, frauds, and more, I have found estimates claiming that there is anywhere between $.18-.018 physical dollar backing each digital dollar you see as your balance on your computer screen. The regulations of the FD(Lie)C has created a risk-free financial banking world on the individual consumer level.

<sub><sup><sub><sup>Sidel, Robin. “FDIC's Tab For Failed U.S. Banks Nears $9 Billion.” The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones   & Company, 17 Mar. 2011, www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748704396504576204752754667840</sup></sub></sup></sub>



<sub><sup><sub><sup>Stammers, Robert. “The History Of The FDIC.” Investopedia, 21 Nov. 2017,www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/09/fdic-history.asp</sup></sub></sup></sub>

_
