---
title: Gun Control (My first social issue article)
draft: false
date: 2018-02-19T23:36:41.019Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/holster-gun-pistol-iwb-38601.jpeg
categories: thoughts
tags:
  - Gun
  - Control
  - Second
  - Amendment
comments: true
share: true
---
Being my first social issue post, I will take a small amount of time to explain exactly what I am attempting to do when it comes to discussing social issues and why I am choosing to approach it this way. The biggest social issue out there is the discussion of social issues themselves. I’ve personally been involved in who knows how many Facebook comment wars and there is one common trend, that I’m guessing you are familiar with. Every person on there is an expert and their solution is the only one that will work. No one reads what others actually say, and it quickly turns to name calling and even violent threats. I will cover the social issue and provide a possible solution to it. There will be no senseless arguing, there are enough articles that exist that make outlandish claims, for example the latest school shooting statistics claiming there have been 18 in less than the first two months of 2018, or simply ridicule other sources for what they publish. The solution provided is based off current knowledge of the subject and may change, but if a position is changed, it will be released as a new article explaining the change. Articles on Rude Thoughts will not be altered to try and hide any previous stated thoughts. Overall, I will be providing my solution to social issues and that’s it. One of the biggest flaws, at least that I see, is when it comes to gun control, the left claim that the right constantly says its not the time to talk about it and the right claim that the left call for responsive action that would do no good and when are questioned about what they are proposing they don’t really have any knowledge on the topic. I am talking about it from my perspective and providing a solution, and my proposition completely open to discussion and critique, but it must be just that, discussion and critique.

Gun control, a topic that can spark intense conversation especially in the shadow of the horrific tragedy of modern mass shootings. Here is what will be covered as I discuss gun control. I will look at a short overview of gun control, shooting statistics, and then finally offer a direction I believe America could start moving to hopefully reduce gun violence and make mass shootings a phenomenon of the past. The blame game is destroying any hope of making progress on this gun violence, unfortunately both the left and right generally seem to be unable to set the arguing to the side. We’re not going to agree, that’s basically known, but why is it that we cannot have a conversation without the debate morphing into a name calling blame game. By exploring the areas previously explained, I believe that we can see progress made towards actual, sensible gun control. 
While this is by no means a comprehensive overview of gun control laws, I will discuss ease of obtaining a gun, general requirements, rights, and issues. We can start with the most comprehensive and blanket policy in place when it comes to gun control, the second amendment. “A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed” (The Constitution of the United States, Amendment 2). What exactly does this mean? Does the right of “the people” mean only the people as a group, granting  the right to a formed militia with its specified operations and arms in place, or does it literally mean each individual person? I believe it means the individual people, as the citizens that comprise the state, have that right, along with their right to assemble into a militia to protect their free state if necessary. This is an important designation to make as it is the foundation of my view of gun control.  Its also important to note when rights may be taken away. Whether you agree with it or not, it is currently a right, and saying you don’t believe it should be one is not grounds to have it removed. A right can only be taken from you when you infringing on another rights. This is one of the reasons gun control is so difficult to discuss. There are mass shooters that had no criminal record, but you cannot take their rights if they’ve committed no action to justify taking said rights . The second amendment is why obtaining a gun is so relatively easy in America. So long as you haven’t committed a violent act against another person, you can generally buy a gun. This is not absolute, but it represents most successful LEGAL gun transactions. Quantity often comes up next as an issue. You may hear many people say, “why would someone need a gun, let alone 5-10-20-infinte guns?” The answer to this question is three parts; number one is because they want them and can have them, number two it is consistency, and number three is, a quantity is an unlawful restriction of a right. Consistency, all you need is food, shelter, and social interaction. You don’t need your car, you don’t need your computer you’re reading this on. So long as you meet the requirements to purchase a gun (remember, that is you are not infringing on another’s rights) then you can own one.  The inability to unlawfully infringe rights, I believe, also protects quantity. If there is a quantitative limit on the number of guns the people of a state can possess, the required force to take their rights away can easily be measured. This is an unlawful restriction because a right, the formation of a militia (U.S. Const. am. 2), is being infringed upon but not because the person/s who has the rights infringed first. Gun control has is difficulties due to it being a right, but it is certainly a right that I believe is a crucial aspect of America. 

Gun violence is pretty straight forward in America’s society today. According to FBI murder victim statistics, from 2009 until 2015, out of 105,942 people murdered in America 50,420 were victims of homicide by handgun, that is an average of 28 people per day. In that same time 22,771 people were murdered by all other gun types combined, 2,523 of the that portion by rifle. The point of these statistics, the vast majority of gun control outcry happens after a mass shooting and is focused towards rifles. Even if all of those murdered by rifle died in mass shootings (which they didn’t), they would make up 5% of all murders by gun. This moves the conversation into a public policy discussion a bit, public policy cannot be made on the behalf of the 5%. This does not mean individual issues can’t be addressed or it does not mean that there is not a problem, but blanket reactionary legislation is not logical or productive. An equivalent would be banning cars or creating stricter vehicle control because a very small minority of the population uses them to harm others. So where so we go next with gun control, how do we combat the violence that is taking place in America today with firearms and culture? 

My solution to helping reduce the firearm violence that takes places today is in firearm acquisition, criminal punishment and culture. While you have the right to a firearm, that does not mean you automatically get one when you are born. The entire purpose of the right to own a firearm is that you are allowed to have one so long as you are not infringing on another’s rights. You’re not granted one, you don’t have to have one, and you still must be responsible with or without a firearm or your firearm ownership rights can be taken away. Policy that I would change is as described. Waiting times, waiting times do nothing for no one. If some one is legally allowed to posses a firearm, making them wait one, two, four weeks is more a hassle on all parties involved than anything. Though I do not have an actual statistic, I would guess a waiting period would only influence people to buy them illegally or hand to hand more, as this is a basic rule of economics. This is similar to a tax and in economics, when you tax something you get less of it and when you subsidize something you get more of it. Gun laws, I would change gun laws to focus on actions and calibers (like fully automatic guns), not looks and accessories. Many people want to ban assault rifles, but they don’t mind the wood stocked hunting counterpart that does the exact same thing as the assault rifle. I believe if gun control laws are going to be made they should be made in reference to the action and caliber, not the looks and accessories. I would require permitting to change the action (when I say action in this sense I mean the action of the gun itself and the action of firing it) of the way a gun fires. This may be a little controversial, but it does a few base line things. One, accessory up, put as many flashlights,  grips, and stocks on your gun as you wish. Two, it does not change functionality. If you want to change the trigger so its easier to pull go for it, so long as it does not change the action in which the gun is fired. Three, if the action of a gun and the action of the way it is fired is not changed then it doesn’t matter if you have a 3 cartridge magazine in it or a 300. Basically, what this proposition would effect is things like bump stocks because you are no longer firing the gun in the way it was made to be fired, its firing itself, but technically the gun action was not modified. Furthermore I believe this would also allow more weapon freedom, so long as it is legally permitted. 
Finally, and most importantly, there needs to be stricter gun offense penalties and there needs to be a culture change regarding violence. Straw man buying, illegal concealment/ownership/selling, assuring gun owners are responsible even in the case of accidents. We need to curb the desire of defying the law while supporting legal and responsible ownership. This relates back to economic theory. Heavily tax criminals breaking the laws with permanent or temporary weapon restrictions against in conjunction with their jail/parole sentence. Follow with subsidizing the legal and responsible to encourage them to continue their ways by making legal gun ownership quick, easy, and appealing. We know the criminals will obtain firearms regardless, so taxing the law abiding only encourages them to them to find other means of firearm acquisition. The right to firearm ownership does not need to be a hassle to those wanting to follow the law and for it to be safe and effective. For the final claim, not a proposition on gun laws. We need to change our culture on guns and violence. Statistically speaking, societies with higher frequencies of families that have stable monetary and relationship foundations live with less crime. Our sense of community is gone, we live in a very us and them, victimized world. The culture breeds arguing, greed, and finger pointing. No one listens, no one helps, and everyone is entitled to something, depending on where the wheel of systematic oppression landed on this month. The ultimate minority is the individual and we are pushing our communities more and more that direction every day. 

Even with perfect gun control laws in place, there is an unfortunate and scary fact about some people in our world. If someone or a group of people want to hurt others, they will. Take their guns, they’ll make bombs. Take their bombs and they’ll use cars. Take their cars, next is knifes. This world is full of people that are willing, able, and disgustingly honored to hurt others. As a society we have 2 choices; arm the responsible and willing to fill that crucial time of waiting on law enforcement, or disarm the responsible and willing and allow the maniacs to have their way while law enforcement responds. I know what I chose.
