---
title: 'I''d say grow up, but look where that''s getting us'
draft: false
date: 2018-02-24T21:57:07.780Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/spenser-h-194650-unsplash.jpg
categories: thoughts
tags:
  - Left
  - Right
  - Morals
  - Values
comments: true
share: true
---
This is my second social issue post, it will be a short, like a daily ponder, but also somewhat like a rant. In light of recent national events, the bickering and name calling has escalated to ridiculous levels. Why is it, that our country can not even do so much as agree on something like stopping mass shootings? There is no opposition to this, there is no politician campaigning on the grounds of allowing the bad things that happen in our society to continue. We literally argue over what we want to believe the other side is supporting. This goes for the left and right. Let’s quickly look at a few social issues. Gun control, the left argues that support of the NRA means you care more about guns than dead people, the right argue that the left are ready to ban every known weapon made. Then both sides argue that if there was logical gun control legislation they would support it, so why aren’t we getting anywhere with it? Immigration, the left argues that people on the right don’t care about immigrants or their lives. The right argues that the left just wants to let everyone in without question. But then both sides say if there was a logical immigration process that allowed people to come to our country and work for a better life, they would support it. Again, where is the progress? There are some ideas that I believe seem to be feeding these issues. One - extremism, both sides let the extremist of the other sides paint the picture for the entire party. Two - defying extremism, there seems to be this idea that the other sides party is so extreme that we need to be extreme to counter their extremism. Three -  the media, the majority of the media plays on these emotions to get ratings and push agendas which irritate the opposing sides and they respond with the same type of complete crap. Four – identity politics and victimism, if you are on this side you must believe this, but you can t speak on a topic unless you’re a victim. At the same time everyone is a victim, except straight white men, and we need some kind of victim hierarchy if we ever want to make any progress ensuring everyone gets the affirmative action they deserve.  Five – fairness, nothing is fair, especially life, and you just live with that. As a society we’ve basically removed any and all boundaries stopping anyone from being anything they want to be. But our society isn’t ready for this because the government has been grooming us with entitlements for generations now and there is little self-reliance and responsibility. Six – culture, this is the biggest one. On the CNN town hall after the Florida shooting, during the dialect between representative Marco Rubio, NRA spokesperson Dana Loesch, and the high schoolers, people, I’m assuming to be grown adults, were yelling things from the crowd like burn in hell and murderer. Are you kidding me? Why anyone would impose these accusations on someone in this situation is absolutely disgusting and truly immoral. Rubio and Loesch are not murderers, they came out among a crowd of opposition to talk and that is how they are treated.  It comes from both sides but from my experience this seems to be more of a tactic of the left. Political parties aside, we see this everywhere, online, people telling others they will murder their families because they don’t agree with them on a specific topic. Periodically on the news you see adults getting into fights at their children’s sporting events.  When the Eagles won the super bowl, citizens of the city basically rioting. Do we have no social values? Do we have no morals? The next time you want to say something to someone or do something extreme out of reaction, pause for one minute. Just for one-minute think about what you are going to do, to say. What are the implications? Is it morally right? An act that takes places that is immoral or breaks down our social values does not justify an immoral reaction to it. Finally, just remember, often times the things you do and say, especially when aimed at another person, tell more about you than they say about whatever it is you are trying to prove. Again, I’d finish by saying grow up, but look where that’s getting us.
