---
title: >-
  Dicks Sporting Goods Recent Gun Sales Policy Change, and Freedom of
  Speech/Association, Daily Ponders-5 
draft: false
date: 2018-02-28T16:38:52.347Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-64057.jpeg
categories: thoughts
tags:
  - Speech
  - Association
  - Freedom
  - Daily Ponders
comments: true
share: true
---
Today Dicks Sporting Goods released publicly new policy in regards to their gun sales. This includes a removal of all "assault style rifles" also referred to as modern sporting rifles (this is the only stipulation that has been stated that will be passed along to their shared business, Field and Stream), stop legal sales of firearms to purchasers under the age of 21, stop the sales of high capacity magazines, and continue to not sell accessories that enable the rapid firing of a semi-automatic gun. This has been up for a very short amount of time, and as a hunter/ outdoors man, I have already seen massive amounts public backlash on social media. I myself, will in fact stop shopping at Dicks Sporting Goods, even the policies are retracted. At the same time I 100% stand behind Dicks in their decision to do this. This is the type of decision that gets a lot of people hyped up and angry. This decision falls directly next the cake baker and the gay wedding. This is why America is so great. No one has the right to demand a service from another. No one can demand that Dicks has to sell a gun to anyone, even if it is a legal purchase. Dicks makes their own policy, individuals construct their own beliefs and values. If you don't agree with Dicks decision, if its not in line with your values, don't shop there. Economically, this problem will sort itself out, here is how. If a company decides to do something and people don't like it, they just wont shop there. If people don't shop there, the place will go out of business. It is that simple. This concept takes many forms, employment is another example. Say "company A" decided that they were going to not offer insurance to their employees that aided in medical procedures the owners do not agree with. Don't work there if you do not agree with that, again, its that easy. There is a feeling of entitlement in, especially young, Americans today. That fairness is a guarantee to you, that you will be unconditionally supplied with access to everything you want in the name of fairness. That is not fair at all, that is not how it works. Guaranteed access to something is forced labor on an another. The only thing that is guaranteed is that governmental legislation, policy, and laws will not stand in your way to access what ever you want, to be whatever you want it be. But this does not mean it comes at the cost of another unwilling persons work and time. That is theft and not fairness. In a true open market, businesses succeed for two reasons; 1 - there is a market for the goods they sell, and 2 - the public values they display match those values that their market holds. If either of these fail, the business fails. A moral and just society does not need laws dictating that "Hitlers Grocery and Deli" or "The Soviet Cafe" cannot exist, why? Because, presumably, no one would shop there. Though these are extreme hypothetical scenarios, the principals still apply. If enough people don't agree with values of a business, it will not success. If enough people agree with it, it will succeed and if you do not like that, simply do not shop there. Keep an eye out for a longer article on these topics. I have more to say about them, but am still trying to construct exactly how I want to present those thoughts. These, as stated in the past about my daily ponder articles, are real time and unscripted reactions to whatever I may be seeing or hearing about that day. I look forward to expanding, and I hope you look forward my more in depth thoughts on the topic. 
