---
title: Comfortably Numb(ered)
draft: false
date: 2018-02-22T16:27:48.134Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-210590.jpeg
categories: thoughts
tags:
  - Risk
  - Reward
  - Margin
  - Incentive
comments: true
share: true
---
This morning when I started work at my day job, I currently make digital maps, I was looking through YouTube to see if there were any randomly recommended videos that caught my attention. After seeing nothing too interesting, I thought, what am I doing? What is this blog about? Money. It popped into my head, though its not purpose behind the blog, that's just what happened to be crowd surfing the mosh pit of ideas today. I typed it in and the first video that comes up, Money-Pink Floyd. Who can resist that? I let it play through along with the next song, Comfortably Numb. That's when I really started thinking. Is Americas crumbling foundation comprised of the comfortably numb? Risk, reward, incentive, these thoughts making me ponder the possibility that maybe all of us are our own subsidy system. Don't think this is going to turn into some kind of psychologically inspiring, go out and be all you can be article, because its not.  Economics, specifically in a free market society, is all about the choices we make. policy is in place to try and curb those choices. As I'm guessing you know, people are more than willing to bypass, undercut, and blatantly resist policy and law. Risk and reward it whats its all about. You drive 5mph over the speed limit, with the assumed risk that you might get a speeding ticket; but the reward, the sweet sweet reward, you made it to the next red light before the person in the lane next to you. Risk and reward drive our economy. You take on a job, at the risk that you may be more productive or happy doing something else with that time, but the reward of a steady income. Then you buy a car, at the risk of affording it or driving it, with the reward of the capability to travel more efficiently and effectively. All of these risks and rewards are relatively harmless and have very predictable outcomes. Lets talk about the risk and reward of the policy we follow. What is the risk of making that next dollar? There is the risk of being taxed more, loosing on an investment, or misallocating the resources to a less productive purpose. This may come with the reward of making more money or maybe getting your dream business off the ground. This is all from the perspective of the entrepreneur or capitalist. What is that same risk if you are the beneficiary of a welfare state. Now that risk of making that next dollar is loosing free food benefits, or maybe assisted housing. At what reward? Your taxes increase, you have to be more self-reliant (which is the true reward many see as a burden), and you are now the victim of a welfare state you once benefited from. Our country is comfortably numb(ered). Our system  rewards the less productive at the expense of the productive, it will not last forever. I was listening to Peter Schiff speak on an "economist" arguing to add a basic income in America, this morning. This is outrageous! Our country incentivises not making that next dollar. The reward is is $.5 for $1 worth of production, and the more you produce, the worse it gets. We are all comfortably numb, just at the level where we don't want to make that next dollar because we know either it will all be taken, or because our benefits will be taken. I may not have my degree yet, I may not be attending the best economics school in the world, but I believe its common sense to see that with the system we are currently running, our days are numbered. 
