---
title: Is Free Trade the Best Trade?
draft: false
date: 2018-02-24T16:04:21.271Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-753331.jpeg
categories: thoughts
tags:
  - Free
  - Trade
  - Economy
  - Market
  - ''
comments: true
share: true
---
The idea of trade, it may be possibly the oldest social relationship that’s existed ever. Whether that trade is conscious or not, it has been taking place in the natural world for as long as, well possibly ever. Animals trade food for protection, responsibilities, sometimes even their lives for the lives of their offspring. Trade exists with us, possibly, though I do not use absolutes often, necessarily with us, and as a more libertarian minded economist I really like free trade. Free trade is not confined to the minds of the right. When addressing the Democratic association of Brussels, Belgium, on January 9, 1848, Karl Marx described free trade system as a social revolution that the destroys old nationalities, also the only sense of revolution he favors. This is an expansion from his idea that old nationalities take great effort in obtaining a protective system that establishes large scale manufacturing to grow their countries riches at the expense of another. Would this mean that Marx supported communism at the national level, but more of a libertarian when it comes to global economic relations? (For those interested, I am currently reading through The Communist Manifesto and have been working on The Wealth of Nations, I should have some work on both coming up this summer) 

There are many aspects to trade that may be discussed. But rather than picking each one, I am hoping to condense the effects of trade and impositions placed on trade to a basic all-encompassing level. If this goal is reached, and you as the reader have the capability to discuss general trade scenarios, you can take this knowledge and extrapolate it to many situations at many levels. Let me explain in this sense, I do not want to tell you that 3x9+5=32 and 3²-5/2=6.5, now figure out 3³/(6+12(-1)). I want to discuss the rules that exist, or at least for economics, the tendencies that reoccur. Math is universal and not susceptible to the irrational and unexpected behavior of man, unlike economics. With this in mind, hopefully providing you with the “rules” of the game will then allow you to understand what is best for you in your personal life, your public life, and most importantly (in the mindset of how our social lives are constructed and developed) your political life. 

In an attempting to create an easy to understand explanation of trade, in conjunction with the auxiliary goal of not sounding like a textbook, I will be using you, your local supermarket, and a series of questions to hopefully stumble our way to a conclusion.  If this is the first article you are reading, understand a few things first please. These are extremely simplified examples intended to highlight the topic of the article. Shopping at the super market has many more aspects to it, its just a relatable example. Also, compare this to any type of shopping or any type of economy. House shopping, bargaining at a flea market, even searching for a job. These principles can cross into various aspects of your personal life and allow you to make more educated decisions. You may not agree with my points, but it provides with  you another scope to view, whatever it might be, through. Back to the free trade market. You pull into to local market and everything is free!!! Well, no, that’s not what I’m talking about here. I am discussing barriers, legislative, policy, and monetary barriers. Free trade is simple, you have the freedom to trade your goods and services anywhere, without penalty or stipulation. In a sense we live in a pseudo free market. Outside of immoral actions, you basically can sell just about anything anywhere. The barriers that exist, exist as fees, taxes, and more economic jargon that isn’t necceisary here for you to understand the concept. Off to the market.

One assumption must be made for consistency. Remember that whole irrational human thing I was talking about? For all of these examples, we will be under the assumption that you are making rational decisions that best suite you/your family’s economy. How would your decisions change about shopping at your local market if they started reducing your total grocery bill if you brought in your own bags? Or on the other hand, what if they only wanted you using their bags, so they charged you to bring in your own? In the first situation you’d likely start brining your own bags, maybe even bringing one bag per item you buy so you can get the largest discount. In the latter you’d asses the penalty, weight it against the benefits you may see in bringing your own bag and decide from there. This could be comparable to a regulation on crating, shipping, or receiving the items you wish to trade. The rule here, much like basic economic rules, if you tax something you will get less of it, and if you subsidize something you will get more of it. In the world of competition and free trade, there is likely a second, third, maybe fourth option out there competing.  Another rule, you will choose the best economic option for your economy. Say instead of shopping at the market, you are a vendor now. You sell \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (insert favorite food). You are selling your product in your town and the town over from you. The next town over doesn’t like that your product is cheaper, better quality, again insert whatever good attribute you would like here. The town over makes a rule in response to your product out selling their local supply. You may sell your product here, but we will be imposing a tax on you to do so, making your product more expensive and hopefully lowering demand for your product and transferring it to the local product. Now you must decide, will my product be worth the additional imposed tax to the people it serves, is it economically feasible? Finally, you have your absolute favorite product at your local market. This market may have a tax or regulation that you do not like, but the penalty you suffer from them is not too severe and you accept them and continue to shop there. One day your favorite item is gone! The market has decided, for whatever reason, that they will be banning said product and you cannot get it form them no matter what. Would you switch markets? This is more of a blatant and obvious action against free trade more than anything. 

There are many reasons why free trade may be partially restrained.  As discussed, morals generally produce restrictions in the ability to legally trade anything anywhere you would like. Other restrictions may root in irresponsibility. For example, you cannot transport oil unless your transportation vessel meets specific requirements. This is type of free trade restriction that is in place because if it wasn’t, companies would likely cut corners and make irresponsible decisions for their monetary gains. This is also where the public plays a roll in free trade markets. If a company is doing something that does not meet your moral standards, simply do not buy from them. This may require you to pay more for competitors’ products that voluntarily impose more restrictions and regulations on themselves, but the monetary cost may outweigh the moral cost you feel when you buy from the less regulated company. This brings up the final subject of this article. Adam Smith discusses the real and nominal price of commodities (for your time and interest, stuff) in chapter 5 of The Wealth of Nations. The nominal price is simple, it’s the monetary price, the sticker on the windshield of the car. The real price is everything that goes into the product and the transaction. The toil and trouble, the production, the consumption, the meeting point of producer and consumer. With that in mind what is the real price of buying bananas at the grocery store. First, you need an entire grocery store, you need bananas, you need a buyer, in addition to all the associated real and nominal costs that go into all of those aspects. Free trade simply allows this process to construct as efficiently as possible. The closer to the start of the chain of production you insert a pseudo cost (that could be real or nominal like a tax or a regulation), the more sections of the economy it will influence, hence making the overall economy more inefficient. Again, real and nominal inefficiency. Maybe the inefficiency of buying meat products that are only raised to one’s personal moral standards makes the system more inefficient, but that inefficiency is worth the moral burden it would place on the individual otherwise.
