---
title: 'Steeling Jobs or Steeling Productivity: Tump’s Tariffs'
draft: false
date: '2018-12-15'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-1468390.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Steel
  - Tariffs
  - Trump
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
As basically everyone at this point in time follows Presidents Trump, whether they want to or not and whether it’s for the good or the bad, his activities are well known. Recent activities President trump has involved himself in is are tariffs. A short scroll through the presidential Twitter feed will provide adequate evidence for his fascination of the subject. Calling himself [“Tariff Man”] (https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1069970500535902208) and continuously promoting any tariff related successes, President Trump is here to make America great again one tariff at a time. But, what are tariffs, who do they help, who do they hurt? Though there is a lot to discuss regarding the topic of tariffs, there are two main aspects that I would like to discuss. Modern tariffs are a tool of international trade and they are also a political tool. 

In very simple terms, a tariff is a tax on an import that can be supplied at a cheaper price than supplying that import domestically. One of the most recent tariffs placed on international competitors were steel and aluminum tariffs. These tariffs were supposedly placed as a countermeasure to trade abuse and to support domestic steel and aluminum jobs. In terms of job savings, it did work to some degree. [President Trump reassured tariff success](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1067812811068383232)  when a steel company announced the creation of 600 new jobs as they were opening a new steel plant. Though I like most of what President Trump does, tariffs are not one of them. President Trump seems to use tariffs as a political tool, regardless of the economic impact. In this instance, he used them to promote job creation, which does have its economic positives, but the demand for the jobs is artificial and it all comes at a cost. Previous to the tariffs, we bought steel and aluminum from producers who could supply it to us cheaper than we could make it ourselves. Taxing the imported steel and aluminum so that we can compete with it only lasts so long as the tariff is in place. The creation of those 600 jobs comes at the cost of making cheap competitive steel and aluminum expensive. This also means that the consumers of steel and aluminum products now must pay more, as manufactures cannot get the cheaper supplies. This includes only a few items like vehicles, TVs, appliances, aspects of building structures, some bed frames, toasters, play ground equipment, guns, art, nearly every piece of modern technology, and half of the stuff at your local hardware shop, just to name a few. While artificial job stimulation and higher costs on products that use steel and aluminum are arguably worse for the economy, especially in the long run, there is another vital aspect of economics that is being affected. When steel and aluminum production is too expensive to compete against, everything that goes into steel and aluminum production (materials, labor, financial investment) are used for alternative markets in which the production is more efficient. When the tariff is put into place, suppliers that were more efficient prior to the tariff but less efficient after the tariff are incentived to redirect their resources to be as productive as they can. If they are redirecting their resources to steel manufacturing then they are using resources that could be directed toward a product that we are most efficient at producing to a product that we are not most efficient at producing, but it makes business sense because of the tariffs. Simply put, we are using resources to make stuff that we are not the best at making, this makes no economic sense. Not only are we wasting these resources by using them inefficiently, but we also are not supplying the world with what we could be making with the resources. Economically, tariffs make no sense in basically every case, but politically they make complete sense. 

The idea of tariffs and their economic efficiency are not modern ideas. In the mid 1800’s, the French economist Frederic Bastiat sought out to combat the ideas of protectionist tariffs in the name and spirit of the free market. The market he chose to use as an example was the artificial lighting industry. Before electric lighting became mainstream, artificial lighting was a very inclusive industry including workers from many sectors. From lamp and chandelier makers to whale hunters, the lighting industry of the 1800’s included many people. Because the French government had a liking to protective tariffs, the free trade economist Bastiat and his colleagues challenged them with [The Candle Makers Petition.] (http://bastiat.org/en/petition.html)  Thought the petition is satirical in nature, it makes very valid points. The petition argues that artificial light manufactures are out competed by a very significant producer…..the sun. The petition continues by explaining the vast number of laborers that would be much more productive if the government would mandate that all structures engineered to allow light in be barricaded, mandated by law, to ensure that the artificial light be the needed and the laborers keep their jobs. Though this sounds ridiculous in practice, Bastiat makes another crucial point greatly strengthens his argument. He explains the lack of consistency in the governments choices. Tariffs are created “to protect domestic labor”, though when Bastiat brings to them the cheapest competitive resource on the market, free sunlight, there are no tariffs in place to be found. This provides insight to the true reason behind political tariffs, which is to please the people regardless of the real effects. Just as some ideas in economics have become timeless, so have politics. As stated, while there are many aspects of President Trump that I do like, this is not one. America may not be facing the sun against artificial lighting, but we are facing China. Assuming President Trump uses the same tactic again them that he loves so much, well, that is not a war we are going to win.
