---
title: 'Demonizing the 9-5 '
draft: false
date: '2018-03-17'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-273238.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - 9-5
  - Work week
  - monotonous
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
The 9-5, the 5-day repetitive work week, the epitome, the core, of adulthood. We promise ourselves we will never be it, never become it. After nearly 1/5 of our lives are consumed by school, or we manage to find a decent paying job without the need of college, that is where many of us end up. Then we sit there, day in and day out, working our lives away, while listening and watching people talk about the freedoms of escaping this cycle, wishing we could do the same for ourselves. This is a common description of adult life.   Regretful, self-loathing days at the office, or managing a retail store, encouraging the younger generations to do the same, all while telling them to go out in the world and make something of themselves. Hypocrisy? Not necessarily. Mentality, absolutely. 

Why is the 9-5 so bad? I’m guessing because it feels like a settlement. The security of a decent paying job that sucks, but not so much that you’ll go find another job. The regret, you didn’t go back to school and get that master’s degree, as if it would’ve granted you freedom from your seemingly monotonous work day so you could explore the great tombs of the pyramids…..or something like that.  Your dreams, that perception of your future self, it would all be fulfilled, and your life would be perfect, complete. Today is a two for one. I’m going to discuss a bit about the current you, and a bit about the 9-5 work day. If your relating to any of this, hold on, because you’re not going to get any go follow your dreams and make flower mosaics for a living speech here.  

Opposite as just described, I’m going to start with the 9-5, and why it seems to suck. One simple reason, right out of the gate is because its’s very easy to break off life's rear-view mirror and only look at what’s ahead with very big blinders. If you’d look around for a minute, see where you came from and what you’ve done, you’d likely be happy remembering you’re not the kid at the grocery store bagging groceries any more. So long as you plan a bit, you’ll likely never find yourself there again as well. Also, not to be taken as ad populum, but everyone works the 9-5. Maybe not the 9-5 exactly, but they work the 5-day work week with the same shifts and the same expectations week in and week out. Public service workers, retail, businesses, the self-employed, you name it, nearly everyone works a 9-5. The 9-5 builds America! It’s what built America and is still working on it today. Were just a large group of people all trying to fulfill our never-ending wants and needs, get through our painstakingly dreadful lives, and finish it off with a little hypocritical regret. Wishing you’d done all these things but then wishing for nothing more than to see your children and grandchildren, that were the result of that life you wish you could change so much, grow. So, what is it? My grandfather, he worked, and when he wasn’t working he was working. Did he need to, probably not, especially considering any of his children would’ve taken him and my grandmother in without regard, or worry, of any monetary loss that would’ve resulted. He had pride in working and pride in one’s work is lost. Many simply don’t care, just like many other aspects of society today. You go to the supermarket and the restroom is trashed because the kid thought “it’s just the bathroom and its going to be messy again in an hour so why bother.” You bother because it is a representation of you. Even if you hate your job you can still take pride in work. Your building habits, you’re proving to the world what you’re made of. I may be wrong, but I would bet that when doctors, maybe lawyers, police officers, or fire fighters, when they were in college or at training and they had side jobs, to be successful in their careers today, they took pride in their work then. Not because they loved serving food or cleaning bathrooms but because they were building the foundation of their work ethic. Would you want the doctor performing surgery on you to be that kid who was cutting corners when their boss asked them to do something, I wouldn’t.  Would you want that firefighter that would do just the bare minimum and not take that extra time and effort to assure the job is being done correctly, I wouldn’t. Some people hit the job lottery, and they get to do things many of us only wish we could, but they make sacrifices and dream too. You don’t have to be where your striving to get to, or even need to know where your going, to take pride in your work. 

Now you, yes, time to tear all the “yous” apart to maybe shed a bit more light on this demonizing the 9-5 problem. Your life is full of regret and you have this ever-changing self-created image of what you wish you could be. You dread on things in the past that hurt you, unfairly or fairly, while searching for answers from the universe. Karma, luck, meant to be, you look for answers everywhere except for the one place that has them, you. You get in your own way, letting yourself aimlessly search for a sign to tell you what you should be doing with your life, worrying about what others will think. If you want to know what defines you, if you want to know who you are, look at what you are doing right now. If your dreading on a painful experience in the past, well the past doesn’t define who you are. You have a niagara of goals and “who you want to bes” planned out in the future, the future doesn’t define you either.   What you do right now defines you. If you don’t like your job and you just complain about it, yet do nothing to solve the problem, who is at fault? Its not the system, its not the American white male, its you. Are you not getting anywhere in your job, yet you take no pride in your work and are just getting by enough to not get fired? What else would you expect? You want to lose weight, but you’ve already gone back on your new year’s resolution and you can’t go for a jog or walk because…..it’s snowing (go ahead and enter the typical excuse used)? Make as many excuses as you would like, but it’s no one’s fault but your own. Reality only reflects the truth of the situation you find yourself in.  The now defines who you are, in the sense of this article; it may very well be the waves of the societal demolition of pride in work and the ever-increasing climb of obtaining a certain social status that is eroding away at the foundation of your meaningful life. As Admiral William H. McRaven said in his 2014 commencement speech to the graduating class from the University of Texas, “If you want to save the world, start by making your bed.” You are out there right now trying to save your life from certain and total regret. Look around, though it doesn’t define who you are, it good to know where you came from. Though you’ll likely change your mind, its good to know where you want to go. You’ve actually made your proverbial bed, so go ahead and lay in it. Or, with all the accompanied discomfort and uncertainty, mess it up so you can make it again, but as you would like this time at least.  
