---
title: Can We Make America Great Again?
draft: false
date: 2018-02-08T13:10:05-05:00
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/maga.png
categories: thought
tags:
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Making America great again, it’s the campaign slogan of the current President, Donald Trump. Is this truly possible? That is my proposition for this article. To address this question, there are some definitions or assumptions that must be addressed. Is America not great, was America ever once great, what do we do now to make it "great" again? We can take a quick second to address these, but first, we must look at some clues that may guide us to the answers to these questions. First, I believe that right now is the absolute best time to be alive. Looking back throughout history, the world’s population lives at a notably higher level than any time before. If you live in a nation that has had any kind of industrial revolution, it multiplies this fact. The poorest people in today’s advanced societies live better than the wealthy of 150 years ago. In America, as this is really what the article is about, we have a welfare state that provides more than enough to survive. Most in poverty have cars, refrigerators, A/C and heat, cable tvs and cell phones. Stepping back and looking at this almost seems like an impossibility. Todays societal and technological advances make all of this possible, and I would say that by living standards America is not only great, but we have been for quite some time now.

The idea for this article came from the launch of Spaces X’s heavy load rocket and the level of technology that was displayed during their test launch today. The Space X heavy load rocket, the strongest rocket to date, launched into space and both the fuel/throttle rockets and the main rocket returned to earth and landed allowing them to be reusable. Just looking at the amount of technology it takes to complete such a feat is mind-boggling at the least. When you take the time to really think about what has happened with this rocket, and the many other technologies we use daily, it is just extravagant. Everything we use was once just stuff in the ground, stuff humanity has figured out how to melt, combine, split, bend, and distort into shoes, computers, houses, and rockets that reach space. Our proven capabilities would be a fascination to anyone looking from the outside in, yet we act as if these luxuries are a birth given right.  Now is where we get into the meat, this is where we get political and we figure out why this is even possible in the first place. 

Looking at nearly any innovation, it is often driven by one of two factors. Private sector research and development, or government competition. First, let’s dissect space travel. The flame of space travel was lit only by the fear that the Soviets were sending technology into space to spy on America.  Once the space race started, in relatively no time America landed on the moon and no country made at least a soft landing for nearly 40 years after that. Government competition challenged our technological capabilities of developing space travel to a degree we have yet to see to this day. If we look at the private sector, we can dissolve health care down to two paths, personal profit or public service. In medicine, there is the ROAD (radiology, ophthalmology, anesthesiology, and dermatology). These comprise the road in medicine because they are the least regulated markets that put the doctors who study them on the road to a comfortable life. Lasik eye surgery is an eyesight corrective surgery that is generally not covered by insurance companies. The result of this was many medical students studied ophthalmology, creating a close to free market system. They knew that the surgery was expensive and that demand was high. Some doctors learned to specialize in ophthalmology to compete against the higher priced competitors. The cost of Lasik surgery can now be as low as 5% the original cost when it first came on the market. The private sector saw an open, free, unregulated market and through the influence of supply and demand, provide low-cost care. Relaying that back to the feat I mentioned today, a private company proving the capability of lowering the cost of space travel, I am extremely excited to see what the future holds.

Back to making America great again, or in my opinion just better. America is great, we have freedoms that no other countries in this world have. We have this awesome system of equality of opportunity. You can do just about anything in America and our laws say that while you do it at your own risk, we will ensure that no person, entity, being, or legislation stands in your way. Your future is what you make of it. For America to run at full capacity and perform at its absolute best we need to go one step further. Though basically anything is possible with nothing holding you back, there are unnecessary laws and regulations in place that make it more difficult than it needs to be. I propose that we move towards a freer market system. If we want more Space X type companies, if we want more medicine that has the advances and affordability of Lasik eye surgery, we need more free market type system. The lower the barriers to entry and the more incentive that is not taxed away, the more innovation we will see. Throughout time we have seen social and technological advances that seemed like sci-fi futuristic impossibilities then now happening, but I believe we are nowhere near the level we could reach. I imagine a world where we can pay off our national debt because we are actually producing goods with the work of Americans that the rest of the world wants. We must break free of the current system that holds us down if we want to get there. We must also restructure our monetary system and national budgeting, but that is an article for another day. Regardless of the previous stamen, America will never get ahead if we do not produce, and we cannot produce when startups, research, development, and risks, in general, are too expensive to explore. I hope my kids or my grandkids are engineering the spaceships that are built on assembly lines as the Ford model T once was.
