---
title: The Gender Pay Gap Does Not Exist
draft: false
date: '2018-12-20'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-1386336.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Gender
  - Pay
  - Gap
  - Earnings
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
The supposed gender pay gap does not exist. A bold statement to start an article, but hopefully by the time you have finished reading this I will have made a strong argument backing my claim. Furthermore, and more importantly, hopefully I can make at least a thorough argument for the real reason for the earnings  disparity that does exist. First, I would like to clear some thoughts that may be running through your head before I dig in too deep. To begin, there is a wealth gap that correlates with gender. What does this mean? Well, the first thing you are taught in statistics is correlation does not equal causation. For example, the average global temperature has continuously risen since the 1800s when the number of pirates has been on a steady decline as seen [here.] (https://www.datasciencecentral.com/profiles/blogs/hilarious-graphs-and-pirates-prove-that-correlation-is-not) This correlation would imply that the number of pirates has something to the global temperature, but it does not. In the same way, gender does not play a role in pay. A common response to this often includes discussion of someone stating that there was this time they knew a women who was paid less than her male coworkers for the same job. I am not going to argue anecdotal evidence, because it is true. There are women who are paid less for the same jobs as men, there are also men who are paid less for the same jobs as women. You can find an anecdotal story to fit nearly any claim, I am discussing the claimed systematic, wide spread idea that there is a gender pay gap. Finally, onto my final point, which is probably the most important. While I believe there is no gender pay gap, I do believe in the motherhood wealth gap.

Let’s break this down a little bit. To begin, simply searching for real statistics is almost impossible. Google search “gender pay gap statistics” vs. “is the gender pay gap real” and you’ll find what seems like two opposite worlds. The former will provide you with more than enough sources indicating there is a gender pay gap of anywhere from $.69 and above, on the dollar, as the gap. The latter is where we start finding some truth as results from even the left leaning journal the New York Times, and women’s institutional studies publish articles discussing that the issue behind gender and pay seems to lie not in gender, but in motherhood. Finally, as I am a student, I have access collegiate libraries with study after study in this topic. You find similar results depending on what you search for in the library as well, but instead of private journals, you are looking at peer reviewed scholarly articles. The main point here, be aware of what you are searching for and all the different types of ways you can search it. If you simply search “gender pay gap”, in less than 10 minutes you’ll be believing that women across the country make $.70 per dollar that a man makes. But where does all of this come from? Where do we get this $.70 number? 
I don’t want to feed into the idea of the patriarchal society taking advantage of women and paying them less and using them for cheaper labor but let’s just take one major point into consideration. Do you honestly believe that there are business men out there who could staff their entire business with women for $.70 on the dollar but voluntarily choose not to? That’s the easiest business decision in the world, you just cut labor overhead by 30%. What I am getting at is the transition from pay gap to wealth gap. As stated, I claimed that there is a motherhood wealth gap. What and why is this? Well, it starts with an argument that women are not under paid. In many circumstances, especially in big major metropolitan areas, women are making more than men on the hour. One thing that does majorly effect women’s total earnings is children. I hope your sitting down for this revelation I am about to spill on you, but generally women can have children. This means that for some portion of time, women will be out of work for at the very least the birth and first few months of the child’s life. They may not be getting paid or may be receiving maternity leave at a discounted pay rate. Also, upon returning to work, there is a huge consideration. If the women cannot make enough money to cover the cost of a baby sitter plus compensation for taking the time out of her day to be away from her child, then she may end up choosing not to work or to drop down to part time work. For single mothers, these problems become even more greatly exacerbated. Over time, this often means that a mother, even a married mother with a helping husband at home, will have a lower lifetime earnings when compared to a man living in the same geographical region with the same occupation. This difference in wealth is manipulated into an hourly rate of employment, hence the hourly gender pay gap is born. Compare women who have never had children to men of the same occupations, and suddenly the “pay gap” disappears. But this is not something that fits the agenda, so it is left out of the conversation. 

This may be the most important part of this entire post. The goal of financial equality may have deviating effects on society. I study economics, I am not a psychologist or sociologist by any means. As an economist, I can discuss the reality that everything comes at a cost. If one of our goals a society is to eliminate the “gender pay gap” or as I will refer to it from now on as the GWG (Gender Wealth Gap), it comes at a societal cost. Assuming that the solution was to represent true fairness, then it would require that all women, regardless of motherhood, work as much as men. If we just paid women more for the same jobs to counterbalance the issue, then we would end up with a real gender pay gap against men. Furthermore, it would be completely counterproductive to the root societal morality of an inequality based off characteristics rather than effort input or cultural norms (that’s an entire other discussion in itself). If all women worked the same hours at the same wage as men, then the women (or family because all of the family members have to work to ensure there’s no financial disparity) who had children must basically pay someone else to raise their child. This is regardless of whether the child’s parents are married or not.  There are many studies that discuss the importance of raising children in a healthy family household, and this is the cost of “fixing” the GWG. As a mother today, you must decide, do you want to fight motherhood wealth inequality or spend valuable time with your child. There are many more discussions that branch from here like patriarchal societal norms and cultural changes over time, plus a few more.  Staying in the context of this discussion, I firmly believe that financial equality at the expense of a society that was raised by a babysitter for 10 hours only to come home to a household of a worn out and tired parents, I’ll take financial inequality. 

As final notes, I would like to simply like to reflect on some thoughts that may have been misconstrued from my article. To being, so long as a child is being raised in a loving household that truly cares beyond the ability to even describe it, I do not care if the parents are same sex or not. I’ve been witness to some of the most atrocious acts committed by parents of a “traditional marriage” all while having friends of same sex marriages that I would without a doubt trust with my kids (if I had kids). If you assumed that any talk of family or parents was the “traditional marriage”, that was not my goal. The importance of a loving and caring family trumps all. Also, as Ben Shapiro has said time and time again, there are [three factors that are good predictors (but not guarantors, don’t get it confused) of living outside of poverty in America] (https://youtu.be/cJedKXiG7Wo). That is graduating high school, getting a job, and not having children outside of marriage. That last point is one of so much importance but also deep discussion, it too could have its own article. The point assumes that when you commit yourself to marriage you are committing yourself to that person for the rest of your life. In this context, marriage is not only vastly important for the couple, but it is also vastly important for any future child. It is a commitment to another person, to your family, and yourself as well. In all honesty, and completely a personal opinion, the lack of respect that exists in modern relationships is disgusting. Regardless of gender, your actions while in a dedicated relationship with another person are simply a reflection of yourself and how you truly feel about that other person.  I don’t need to go too much into detail as I believe most of us can easily conceptualize this point. What I was really trying to get to was lifetime wealth, gender, and family structure are all only portions of the seeming problem at hand. You can’t “fix” one if the without effecting another. Those are the choices we as a society must make.

[Photo by Magda Ehlers] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/boy-and-girl-cutout-decals-1386336/) Provided from [Pexels.com] (https://www.pexels.com/)

Check out the Rude Thoughts [Facebook page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!
