---
title: Recent Interest Rate Hike
draft: false
date: '2018-09-27'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-164656.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Interest
  - Rate
  - Increase
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
It has been a little bit since I have written. As stated in some older articles, the purpose of this blog is to compliment my studies while I obtain my MS in Social and Applied Economics. Well, school has started and has definitely kept me busy. With all that’s been going on; Kavanaugh, President Trump’s trade war with China and now possibly Canada, the “booming economy” we keep hearing about in regards to the stock market and jobs, I found a minute to get an article in. While the topic of this article is not about any of those specifically, it likely has an effect on them, as well as anyone who buys anything in America. This article is about the federal interest rate. What is it, why does it affect you and me, why should you care? I will hopefully address all these questions, and maybe more, throughout the paper. 

The federal interest rate, in its very basic form, is the rate in which the Federal Reserve loans money to the government and banks. The rate hike only went up .25% to 2.25%, but that's more substantial than it may seem especially with more hikes likely coming in the future. The Federal Reserve is the congress appointed bank that is permitted to legally create money backed by nothing by cashing government created bonds. [Here is a video]( https://youtu.be/iFDe5kUUyT0) by investor [Mike Maloney] (https://goldsilver.com/about-mike-maloney/) that explains this a bit more in depth if you’re interested. Back to the federal interest rate, the federal interest rate is important because it controls basically the price of everything by effecting the value of the dollar through inflation. This can seem confusing, so let’s use a real life example. Say for instance, you have a mortgage. I will take this to the extreme and simplify it greatly for ease. Say the bank borrowed money from the fed at 15% and your mortgage is $100 with interest of 25%. You are going to make one payment of $125. The bank will take your $125, pay the fed $15, pay their light bills and taxes, and pocket the rest. If before you make that payment, the fed raises interest rates to 30%, the bank is now in some trouble. The loan, plus interest, they made doesn’t cover their debt and bills any more. In response the bank raises your interest rate to 40% to compensate and now your mortgage payment is $140. Now extrapolate this to a span of a 30 year mortgage and changing economic and political ideologies and you can have quite the roller-coaster ride of dealing with the bank and your mortgage payment. But this is only one crack in the foundation of our current financial system.

As you may know if you read my blog articles, I listen to Peter Schiff a lot. Recently he has been discussing some interesting findings he found when looking over government finances and the stock market. Check out his latest [video here] (https://youtu.be/Xx8G0f-2_OQ). According to his research, there are two troubling factors that are made worse by the rise in interest rates. One, newly built home purchases are at nearly the levels they were right before the housing bubble popped in 2008. Since new houses that are being built aren’t even being bought, and the rise in interest rates just made loans more expensive, it is very likely that there will be a huge slowdown in the building of new home, therefor there was a relatively large drop in the stock of new home building companies.  These cycles feed onto each other, but unfortunately for you we are not at the last step yet. The last step comes in at your house. Let’s go back to the original example, you have a house with a $100 loan on it and interest is 25%. You knew when you bought that home that you would be effectively paying $125 for it. Although the value of the home is more than $100, the interest payment takes up some of that space of actual value. When interest rates go up, that higher interest takes from the value of your home. You can’t just sell it for $100 with the new 40% interest rate, you have to sell it for $89.29. This is because with the 40% interest rate, $89.29 at 40% interest comes out to…….you guessed it $125, the value of your house after interest. Extrapolate this out to a mortgage you’ve been paying on for years and have some equity built up in, that has been shrunk or all together lost. Maybe you have a home equity loan, now that loan has no backing because you’ve lost the equity in your home. Extrapolate this out to hundreds of thousands or even millions of Americans that now have mortgages backed by houses nowhere near their actual value. 

This doesn’t stop here, this scenario plays out on student’s loans, credit card debt, car loans, and the total national debt. Remember, the government borrows money from the Federal reserve as well. When the interest rate goes up, tax payer liability goes up so that debt can be serviced. What is the solution you ask? There are two solutions, both hurt, but one is short term and the other is long term. The first solution is how we got here in the first place. The economy wasn’t going great, so interest rates were lowered to basically 0 incentivize loan creation and spending to hopefully boost the economy. All this money creation creates inflation, lowering the value of the dollar. Also, loans were given out for everything, literally just about everything. Corporate debt-all-time highs, student loan debt-all time high, car loan debt-all-time highs, consumer credit card debt-all-time highs, and all with ever increasing delinquency on payments. [newyorkfed.org](https://www.newyorkfed.org/microeconomics/hhdc.html) We loaned out all this cheap money and now it’s time to pay and we cant. An economic crash, that is the first way to pay for all this. The second is to raise interest rates and just tell it like it is, we cannot pay for it. This way hurts as well, but it stops the hemorrhaging that’s been going on for far too long now. The other good side to higher interest rates is that it encourages savings. When banks can’t borrow from the government because it’s too expensive, they increase their saving accounts interest rates, increasing the incentive to save your money and let the bank loan it out. You pay more attention to what the bank is doing because they’re actually using your money to make loans. The bank pays attention to who it lends to because they don’t want to be on the hook to the savers, they’ll lose customers if they foolishly loan. The government will be more in check borrowing money because they can’t afford to pay back higher interest rates. The problem we face now is that we are very far away from that. All this cheap money that has been being loaned is like a drug, for some reason, there are a lot of people out there that believe that the cure is more cheap money stimulus. We are not far from overdosing.

[Photo](https://www.pexels.com/photo/white-and-black-inflation-chalk-board-writing-164656/) from [Pexels.com](https://www.pexels.com/)
