---
title: '$15 NOW!? I say get rid of minimum wage altogether. '
draft: false
date: '2018-08-25'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-259226.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Minimum
  - Wage
  - Pay
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Minimum wage is a government regulation that is set to help the everyday working man. Its purpose to ensure that workers have enough to live on and aren’t being taken advantage of by having to work at low paying jobs because they have no other option. I am here to argue the opposite. I do not believe that minimum wage helps anyone except larger businesses. When it comes to the general population, it hurts more than it helps. When minimum wage was created by the federal government, the claim was to stop exploitation of workers who had no bargaining power. A lot has happened regarding workers’ rights throughout the history of America. Obviously, the minimum wage, workers’ rights, health and safety, overtime laws, and more. Most of the legislation putting these laws in place are intended to be good. They are good for the individual workers, they are good for society, and they are not that harmful to employers that it could put them out of business or keep someone from starting a business. I agree with most of the regulations put in place. As stated, minimum wage is not one that I agree with. 
There is often backlash at the start of this idea. No minimum wage? Are you crazy? Employers will take advantage of employees, pay them little to nothing, some people are already struggling enough. I will make my case on quite a few points, and maybe if I can’t convince you there shouldn’t be a minimum wage, I can convince those who think it should be $15 that that’s not a good idea. The first point I will discuss is the ever so recently popular $15 per hour. I start here for multiple reasons, first, where does this come from? Often, you’ll hear that someone working full time automatically deserves a “living wage” (whatever that is) and that is $15 per hour. On the concept of minimum wage itself, if $15 an hour is so great, and all of these big corporations just have money laying around that they could be paying out more, why stop at $15? Why not instead make it $25, $50, $100 per hour? That sounds absurd to a lot of people, but based on the concept that it should be a living wage, no matter what it is you are doing, and people will be better off then why not? Well, businesses couldn’t function at a minimum wage that high. So where do we draw the line to ensure that businesses’ can function? You let them decide. Businesses’ obviously want to make a profit, but at the same time they want good employees that will come to work every day on time and do a good job. Pay is used as a competitive tool to do that. Let businesses decide what they can afford to pay out, and if it’s not high enough, then no one will work there. If someone does work there but it’s not as much as they would like to make, they will increase their skills over time until they have the skills needed to work a higher paying job. Which brings me into my next point of who can work.

To begin, we will assume the minimum wage is $10 per hour for sake of ease. Who can work? What kind of question is that? A lot of people can work, well those who can produce at least enough labor to match the minimum wage. One aspect of employment that many people don’t really realize, unless they think about it, is that businesses’ make money from their employees. If a business posts a job opening that pays $10 per hour, they don’t expect $10 per hour worth of work, they expect more. When a person agrees to work at that wage, they are deciding that their time is worth at most the wage offered. The important part for this point is the employer. The employer posts a job looking for someone to work for them for minimum wage of $10 per hour as dictated by law. Now anyone that can only produce $9.99-.01 dollars or labor for hour cannot have a job. Even if they wanted to and the employer wanted to hire them in at a lower wage, they are legally not aloud. Many low skilled individuals who may not have the skills to produce the required amount of labor to meet the minimum wage is automatically out of a job. Raising the minimum wage higher is just like taking the bottom rungs off the ladder of success. Your first job is often one of your most valuable. It teaches you what kind of work you may like or don’t. You learn basic skills like having a schedule, showing up on time, being presentable, and more. By raising the minimum wage, you deny those people needed those skills the opportunity to learn them. The higher the minimum wage, the worse it is for the young kid looking for a summer job, the unskilled adult looking to have just any job, that employer who needs someone to work an easy task but doesn’t generate enough revenue to meet the minimum wage. 

Previously I discussed an employer’s view on the wage they set and how their goal is to hire a good employee that they can still turn a profit from. Now I will discuss the follow to that where I stated how a potential employee values their time. If a person is looking for a job, and they believe their time is worth $10 per hour, they will likely accept any job $10 per hour or more. But if a person knows they don’t have many skills and through trying to find a job conclude that their time is only worth $5 per hour, as that’s all the labor they can produce, they legally cannot work. Even if they were to agree at that rate and could fins an employer to hire them at that rate, it would be illegal. Why is it that government can come in and tell someone that they cannot work for the wage that they value their time at if it is less than an arbitrary number set by the government. An employment agreement is a private agreement between two parties. How a third entity has the right to come in and claim that they know better than either party and they will set the rate for work is beyond me. The government comes in and says, “we know better than you what is best for you, you can only work at this rate or higher”. What if that isn’t what is best for them? What if they don’t have the skills, or maybe the job they want just isn’t available yet? I have worked for wages less than what I would’ve liked to have had in the past, so I built the skills needed to earn a higher wage. This point often works its way to “living wage” and “if you work full time you should earn enough to live off of”. That only works if you have a job. If you produce less than the minimum wage and have no job, then how well did that minimum wage increase help you. While yes, working a low wage job can make times difficult, $5, $7, insert whatever amount below the minimum wage you would like, is better than $0 per hour. The individual will do what is best for them when left to their own decisions. They will find jobs and build skills to earn a better job and build more skills. What is important is they get that opportunity, they get that first job, as stated, the higher the minimum wage, the more rungs you are pulling off the bottom of the employment ladder and more and more people who can’t reach the bottom one that is left. 
 
My final point, like most government policies, there are ways around the minimum wage. I strongly suggest you check out this hilarious [video on Nancy Pelosi’s double standard when it comes to minimum wage] (https://youtu.be/8pFC3LKMIQo). The short of it is, hundreds, if not thousands, of employers every year hire interns. These interns work sometimes full and sometime part time jobs for nothing. They work for $0 per hour. When Pelosi is questioned on some of the interns she hires and the legality of this, she claims that they are being paid with skills and experience they learn on the job. YES! MY POINT EXACTLY! She doesn’t understand the hypocrisy of her own stance in the video. Minimum wage is one of those policies that looks great and has seemingly good intentions, but when taken apart and studied, actually does more damage than good. You are in control of yourself, if you don’t like any aspect of your life, regardless if it’s how much you make or how much you work out. You can develop yourself and gain what is needed to obtain whatever it is you strive for. 

[Photo Source] (https://pixabay.com/en/american-bills-business-cheque-1239036/)
