---
title: Spring Time and Mushrooms!!!
draft: false
date: '2018-05-02'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/image1-3-2-.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Spring
  - Mushroom
  - Sustainability
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Its been a while, and that’s because occasionally you find yourself in situations that are unexpected, completely out of left field, and leave you standing at the foot of what seems like not just a fork in the road of life, but more like a T. The clock is ticking down and you must make a decision, one that will likely change the course of your life, or at the very least, your long-term plan. That is exactly what happened to me. When I started this blog, it was with the understanding that I would be going back to school to study social and applied economics and obtain a master’s degree. This blog would be my supplemental writing and help me clarify my ideas and become a better writer. About the time the writing slowed down, I was offered an opportunity, but this opportunity put me instantly at the T in the road. Its looking like more and more every day I am turning away from school and more towards this opportunity. This means the focus of my blog will change. With more free time to do the things I enjoy, this will likely just turn into an outdoorsman conservative/libertarian blog type blog. I will basically be incorporating more of my persona; hobbies into the blog while continuing to discuss my ideas about social issues, politics, etc. Coming up in the future you can expect an article discussing a bit more about my decision, the pros and cons, and the bigger picture of it. Also, you may find yourself seeing more and more topics surrounding fishing, hunting, and just general outdoors stuff. This leads me to my first new short, mushrooms.
Its spring and mushroom season is here. If you’ve been outside ever, you likely have seen some growing maybe in your yard, or under a tree at the park, or maybe in a pile of old wood chips. I’ve recently been spending my weekends mushroom and turkey hunting, and I’ve been more successful with the mushrooms by far. There are many kinds of edible mushrooms in the wild, along with many poisonous look a likes. I 100% SUGGEST YOU DO YOUR RESEARCH AND AQUIRE A GOOD UNDERSTANDING OF MUSHRROMS IF YOU CHOOSE TO PICK UP THE HOBBY. This article is not nearly comprehensive, and you can easily unintentionally harvest deadly or hallucinogenic mushrooms if you are not careful. Not that we are through the fun stuff, a couple points. One, its generally ok to touch wild mushrooms. You can even taste them so long as you spit them out and don’t swallow them. There is only one mushroom I have heard of as being poisonous to the touch, and it is in Japan. The main reason is that it is not the mushroom that is often bad, but instead what your metabolism the mushroom into. It is when it is broken down that all the toxins are released. Still be cautious, wash your hands, perform all of the classic cautions you would take with any foreign object. Also, its best to cook all mushrooms, even those from the store. The famous portobello mushroom has a compound in them called agaratines. I do not know exactly what they are or how they affect you, but it is recommended that you cook portobellos at very high heat as these compounds are broken down this way. One of the worlds most intelligent mycologist (biologist who specializes in fungi) calls the compound problematic but does not extrapolate further.   What is the point of going out and endlessly searching the woods for these fun fungi? To begin, you learn to be self-sustaining and reliable. You learn about nature and are one percent better off at fending for yourself if you were ever to find yourself in a situation where you would need to, and in a situation like that, you’d want every bit of knowledge that would help. Also, mushrooms offer minerals and nutrients. Often, you’ll find mushrooms are medicinal, and some are even up to 20% protein. Finally, you can make yourself a meal. You can go into the woods and find some mushrooms, maybe some wild onions, and possibly some ramps. If you have some stock at home, you now have everything you need for a nice soup. I recently made some hot garlic mushroom soup with Polyporus Squamosus or commonly known as pheasant back aka dryad saddle mushrooms (The picture for the article are the ones I harvested). You accomplish so much by doing something so simple as mushroom hunting, what are you doing with your Saturday mornings anyway? Just remember, if you are going to get started, or maybe you want to expand your knowledge past the oh so famous Morchella Esculenta or as you may have heard it called, the morel mushroom, research, research, research. FINALLY REMEMBER, THIS ARTICLE IS JUST A DISCUSSION AND NOT INTENDED TO BE INFORMATIONAL FOR IDENTIFYING ANY TYPE OF MUSHROOM, MUSHROOM HUNT AT YOUR OWN RISK. If you become educated in the topic though, you can nearly mitigate all the risk, happy hunting!
