---
title: Robin Hood Economics
draft: false
date: '2018-08-20'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-433077.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Robin Hood
  - Economics
  - Socialism
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Economics has always had this fog of uncertainty to me that doesn’t necessarily exist many other places. The fog is so unique because economics is unique. Economics isn’t a science, but there is a science to it. There is no equation you can plug in that will tell you what the stock market will do tomorrow, but there are relatively accurate predictors that can come close. In business, you can calculate overhead, cost per unit, and profit, but you can’t calculate whether or not people will buy. In psychology/sociology you can study people and their action to make predications and never find an equation that will do it for you. The people aspect of economics is what this fog is made of. Economies are held together by trust, sometimes valid, sometimes not. You can have the best product in the world that solves half your daily problems, but if the people won’t buy it then what is it worth. You can research the history of economics and discover the best economic theories, but if people won’t change their ideals or beliefs then your new school of thought will eventually drown in the sea of economic unknowns. Being that economics is so influenced by perception, trust, hunches, and feelings, you can find yourself in a very thick fog at times. 


What we believe, what we know to love, what we know to hate, these are like ice barriers. You have this solid belief that likely took years and years to grow to what it is today. When challenged, often the cold hard side is hit with little resistance. Every once in a while, a person may find themselves in crisis as they learn something new and it shatters a particular ice barrier into thousands of pieces, crashing down and flooding the nearby land that they’ve been sitting on safely and comfortably for so long. Their life is thrown into chaos and confusion as they try to make sense of this new information and see the now gaping hole, or all together missing barrier. Being that our belief are often built slowly and over time, this means that foundations are often rooted when we are young, when we hardly realize what is happening. This is where we find ourselves discussing Robin Hood. 


After the nostalgia fades away, as I think about it more and more, I am beginning to dislike Robin Hood and many other children’s movies. As a child they were great, but they may have begun rooting ideas into my head that guided my beliefs and eventually worked their way into my thoughts on complex issues like society and how it should be ran. To begin, Robin Hood was a hero. He was a helping hand to all those out in need. As a child I would watch him and wonder what it would be like to be such a great social icon. But at the same time, I remember having a slight reservation about Robin Hood. I was always taught not to steal, not to touch anything that wasn’t mine. Here I am watching this guy steal from the rich to give to the poor. So, we have our first problematic situation. When I was little, I thought, well that’s fine. He is stealing, but it’s for the good, right? The ends justify the means. Is that a very good root to be planting into the developing landscape of a child’s mind? Past theft and justifying action based on the result despite how you got there, another broader idea is being played out. If the rich have so much, the best way to make everything fair is to take form them and give to the poor. Now everyone is better off, right? I wouldn’t agree so. I have written previously about how money, in a way, is a representation of your work. The time and effort you’ve put into whatever it might be is most often compensated with money. Time is not something that you can get back, time is not something that can be replaced or credited. When you steal, you are taking someone’s time, a part of their life. Though you can financially repay them, you cannot truly repay for what you have taken. Taking money from the rich, taking that time, taking that representation of hard work, this does nothing for the poor. You may temporarily relieve some of the stress that accompanies living in poverty, but you’ve done nothing to help them generate their own wealth. Yet this idea seems to be making its way into the light of popular economic thought lately. 


I do not believe that by watching Robin Hood we end up with what we have today. Claiming that would seem to be like trying to melt an ice berg with a hair dryer. But how did we as a country gain the socialist support that we see today. There are “political” action groups, if that’s what you want to call them, that hold basically the same values and beliefs as Robin Hood. With slogans like “By Any Means Necessary” as a justification of the ends regardless of how they got there. Taxing the rich because “they don’t need that much money anyway”. Finally redistributing it out to the poor, this new age Robin Hood style of economics is being celebrated like were the poor townsfolk of South Yorkshire. The seeds of thought that are planted in children’s head only grow if you water them. Maybe it wasn’t Robin Hood, but instead it was Robin Hood followed by a wave of participation trophies, followed by a national victimization contest that created this illogical economic platform that we see today. While I may not know for sure what grew this massive ice barrier of beliefs that I called Robin Hood economics, I know it’s going to take a lot of hair dryers to melt it.
