---
title: 'Venezuela, What is Going On'
draft: false
date: '2018-12-27'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/canva-venezuela-flag-hand-patriotic-patriotism-symbol.png
categories: thought
tags:
  - Venezuela
  - Socialism
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
What is going on in Venezuela? A simple google search will provide results discussing socialism, economic crisis, hyperinflation, corruption, starvation, and more. Another recently common place you’ll find Venezuela being discussed is as the perfect example for the failures of socialism.  For there to be truth in these claims, three very important details must be true. One, Venezuela must be operating under socialism. While this seems relatively simple, a quick look at the 2016 presidential debates shows the ease in which incorrect information can be credited and passed as truth. Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders spent much of his campaign arguing in favor of socialism on the back of the wildly successful socialist Nordic countries like Denmark. Only, there’s a major problem with his campaign strategy, the “socialist” countries he so wanted America to be modeled after aren’t socialist. But don’t take my word for it, [Listen] (https://youtu.be/MgrJnXZ_WGo) to the Prime Minister of Denmark explain the misinformation and the fact that they are not the socialist utopia they are often depicted as he addresses the John F. Kennedy Forum at Harvard, October 2015. Again, first, establish the validity of Venezuela operating under socialism. Next, dissect socialism. What are the flaws in socialism, why does it not seem to work, or at least in my opinion based through observation of practice why is the system inferior to capitalism? Finally, once all of that has been established, determine the commonalities, the links, between the current day Venezuela and socialism. 

To understand where Venezuela is, we must understand where Venezuela came from. Venezuela is a country about the size of Texas located in northern South America. The population sat slightly below 20 million citizens, although that number is becoming more difficult to measure every day. The country faced political challenges through its development, facing drastic government changes and crises. The modern story of Venezuela often begins with the election of Hugo Chavez in 1998. A worn out and tired state was looking for the support from a leader that could provide stability and prosperity. Chavez, considering himself a man of the people, wanted to prove that he was in fact that. Venezuela had one major resource that allowed him to do so, oil. Venezuela has the largest verified oil reserves in the world. Though it is not the best quality in the world it is definitely the biggest, beating out the second-place country, Saudi Arabia, by nearly [12% or around 35 thousand billion barrels] (https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/the-world-s-largest-oil-reserves-by-country.html).  With such a large supply of such a valuable resource, how could Venezuela not be a global economic powerhouse. In order to pull Venezuela into never ending prosperity and fortune, Chavez did a couple things. First, he nationalized oil as a state-owned oil enterprise Petroleum of Venezuela, or PDVSA. With the massive available reserves, Chavez was able to fund this project by borrowing money. What made the situation seemingly sustainable was oil was on the steady rise at this time. Not only could Chavez fund his state-run oil enterprise, but he could employ much of the nation to help. Chavez and the state did have other enterprises to generate revenue, but oil as by far the biggest. Even as recent as September of 2018 with all the ongoing economic issues, [Venezuelan oil is 95% of it exports] (https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032515/how-does-price-oil-affect-venezuelas-economy.asp) Considering Venezuela imports basically everything else, oil is its economy. In order to keep all of the people of Venezuela happy, social programs and government support through direct government assistance or employment through PDVSA was the way of life in Venezuela. The state of Venezuela under Chavez’s command is somewhat debated. Some argue that Chavez was running a fine state with little to no economic or political issues, while other argue underlying politics and economic coverups were hidden from the public, only to manifest from his death. Chavez died in March of 2013 reportedly from illness and a very significant heart attack. What is not debated, is the state of Venezuela from that point on. 

The next president, Nicolas Maduro, took over Venezuela under not exactly ideal conditions. The massive domestic government support debts and international financial debts had been taking a toll on the wallet of Venezuela. Simply put, all the costs of supporting a national and all its people became too costly. To cover the costs, the government was scaling back on investment and upkeep in the actual oil manufacturing facilities. Venezuela had been producing less and less barrels of oil per year every year since before the 21st century. This cycle fed on itself as there then was less money to fund all the debts, so oil manufacturing infrastructure was cut back, so less barrels were produced, so less money was coming in. With the death of Chavez, Maduro stepped into power not as a socialist leader, but as a dictator. Corruption swiftly infiltrated the government while at the same time, gas prices plummeted. There are many reasons to this, but the important aspect in terms of understanding what happened in Venezuela was that oil’s price cut in half in the months after Chavez died and then nearly in half again in the following year. On top of all of the existing issues, Venezuela had massive loans based off expected earnings from high priced oil. The Maduro administrations solution, print the money. Print money is what they did, and did, and did. A fundamental breakdown in understanding economics, money, and debt eventually led to hyperinflation. To make this is simple as possible imagine you are playing the board game monopoly. Everything has its price, it has a relationship to the amount of money in the game. What would happen if you took all the money from another monopoly game and added it to your game. Logically, being that there was the same amount of stuff and same amount of people, but double the money, prices would double. Now imagine if instead of that happening once, it was happening daily behind your back (The Chavez administration printing money to try and support their failing oil industry) and then suddenly, all the extra money that had been being printed for all those years flooded the market. But you’re not receiving more money because you had been being paid what the business (or in this case government of Venezuela) could afford. Then also the government is continuing to print money to finance whatever they can all while keeping their luxurious lives afloat and maintaining public food rations. This is an extremely simplified explanation of what happened and is still happening in Venezuela today. Inflation in 2018 was expected to be hit the on-million percent mark in 2018 by many economic sources, [November of 2018 inflation was nearly 1.4 million percent] (https://tradingeconomics.com/venezuela/inflation-cpi). Imagine the numbers on US dollars being so large that even after the government mandated a 3500% increase in the minimum wage while also cutting the last seven zeros off the bills, a cup of coffee was still over $20 (in Venezuela that’s 4,970,420 Bolivars, the currency used there). Starvation, lack of health care, homelessness, government force against opposition and refusal of international documentary crews are only a few of the issues Venezuelans face today. At this point, one thing is very clear, Venezuela is in ruins.

The fact that the current Venezuelan government is less than supportive has been established. Independent barter has even been “discouraged” as it shows a lack in faith in the government backed currency. A plan to roll out an oil backed crypto currency was underway but failed to gain much popularity as it was a product of the current administration, which just results in the same lack of faith. Corruption, lack of savings, mismanagement of resources, all of these things played a role in Venezuela being where it is today, so is socialism to blame? Yes, and let me explain why I believe this. To being, socialism operates under the idea of “I breathe therefore I deserve”. Often this idea requires some kind of intervention because while many people are charitable they are not charities. Since people will only do so much individually, the government must step in to run the show. The intervention of government to fill these gaps requires costly and inefficient misallocation of resources. The cost to this also includes what could’ve been done with said recourses instead of using them in a more inefficient place.  What you end up with is the government spending more money to do something that the free market could do more efficiently. Furthermore, and more importantly in my opinion, the incentive for profit and innovation are completely destroyed. When did the last technological revolution flood humanity from the opportunities provided by socialism? There is no incentive to do anything. You receive nothing for your specialization, if you can even gather the capabilities to capitalize on it. A profit a very important concept in economics, development, and society. A profit means that you took some group of materials and rearranged them in a manner that they are now more valuable as their new altered form than they were as their individual pieces. Socialism does not promote that because, by definition, the means of production, distribution, and exchange are owned by the community as a whole. There is no incentive because anything that you do will be redistributed evenly among community. This breaks down the market system, our way of determining what people want and how bad they want it (supply and demand). Therefore, everything is left to the government. Because incentives have been destroyed, everything is less efficient, which means they cost more and you get less. That is what happened in Venezuela, but instead of getting less they tried to print their way into successful socialism and now have a starving, sick, impoverished society eating dogs in the street, and that is no joke. 

[Photo] (https://www.canva.com/photos/misc/MACVrzMMvUY-venezuela-flag-hand-patriotic-patriotism-symbol/?showAcquireAction=#) provided by [Canva.com] (https://www.canva.com/)

Check out the Rude Thoughts [Facebook Page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!
