---
title: 'Crypto-Fallacies, Crypto Isn''t Ready to be Currency'
draft: false
date: '2018-08-24'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-730547.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Crypto
  - Cryptocurrency
  - Currency
  - Money
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Money, currency, cash, fold, dough, loot, and many more. When one of these words is said, basically everyone thinks of the same thing. The US dollar has been the standard for money for a long time now, both nationally and internationally. As society and technology progresses, money can sometimes feel like stone age technology. We have moved to digital money for the most part, but physical cash still plays a relatively large roll in our society. There are issues with our current financial system, which I discussed in previous articles and will likely discuss again in the future. Today’s article is not about the issues at hand with our current system, it is a discussion about crypto currencies and where I believe they play a role in the future structure our national and global financial system. Before I start diving into the vast sea of finance and crypto, I believe it’s important to run through a few definitions first. Currency is a medium of exchange and a unit of account that is portable, durable, divisible and fungible (this means that one unit of the currency is the same value no matter where its spent) Money is the same thing, but in addition is a store of value over time, I’ll expand more into this later. A cryptocurrency is a type of digital currency where encryption techniques are used to generate and regulate the existence activity of the currency. Fiat is defined as a decree or formal authorization. Finally, we have investment vs speculation. An investment is an asset that provides a return, like a stock that pays dividends or an apartment house that you rent out. A speculative asset is an asset that you believe someone will be willing to pay you more for in the future but generates no wealth or payment while you own it.  Often, these words are switched for one another, though the point is still made without confusion, what is being said may not be necessarily correct. 

Currently in our society, the US dollar is the currency we use, and it does a pretty good job. Notice that the dollar is not money, as it does not store value over time. If you placed $100 in a shoe box and went to it 10 years later, it would not buy the same amount of stuff as when it was originally placed away. Even when the dollar was backed by gold, the dollar was the currency that was backed by the real money that was gold. The US dollar is a fiat currency as it officially declared the currency of the United States by the government but holds no real value and is not backed by anything at all. Bitcoin and other crypto currencies have been big news lately. They’ve been a get rich quick, and at times get poor quick, scheme. They are used around the world and regulated by the users rather than any government. They possess some qualities of a good currency, but there are fallacies that have been floating around with them that I am here to publicly address. I will go at this by addressing an issue and comparing it to what we have today to see if there are any inherent advantages or disadvantages. Recently there has been suggestions from crypto fans that they will soon be, or should be, a replacement of national currencies. Let’s just see how that would work out.

Crypto currencies are just numbers in computers. That is not too different than what we use today, but we still do use physical currency. That may prove to be a problem for some as everyone would have to have some kind of app or crypto-card, though I would guess we are moving more and more towards the digital age of currencies every day. One bigger issue that we hear about our currency is that it is subject to inflation. The popular crypto currency Bitcoin is supposedly immune to this due to a cap that is said to be placed once the number produced reaches 21 million. There are well over 1000 crypto currencies though. It has been claimed that this isn’t a problem, I disagree. Nothing stops anyone from buying anything with any cryptocurrency so long as both parties agree to use it. There is no regulation to limit to the number of crypto currencies that could possibly be created. It’s not like current countries, where each has their own currency. It would be more like if every country said that anyone can produce however much of any currency they want, so long as they call it a different name.  If a crypto currency did die out because possibly another was created that everyone liked more or maybe a mass of people decided to use because they felt one social class had control of the other currency, then you could find yourself out. Crypto currencies not being regulated by a governing body comes with all the issues of no governing body. If someone steals your crypto, who do you call? There have been a number of cases where this precisely has happened, to the tunes of crypto-collections worth millions of dollars, and there was nothing anyone could do. You’ve also likely seen the fluctuation of crypto prices on the news at some point in time. This makes banking/investing very difficult. Who is going to provide a loan in crypto if the loaning party doesn’t know if the crypto will be worth 20% more or less the next day, week, year, and so on. Crypto may stabilize eventually, but with everything discussed up to this point I wouldn’t bet on it. The future likely will hold a digital currency as the currencies of governments. I propose it almost would have to be a digital currency backed by a physical asset. Which brings me to my final part about crypto, that they are nothing. Crypto is literally electricity fed into a computer to light up pixels on a screen to display a number. At least our crappy worthless US dollar has a physical tangible form. It is backed by the government, keeping it valuable to some degree from the personal to the international level. Crypto is literally nothing but faith that the next guy will buy it. That out there somewhere is a bigger crypto fool. There is nothing backing it except the expectation by the person accepting it that someone else will accept it from them down the line.  

Crypto holds no place as currency in our world today. Not many businesses take it as a form of payment. The ones that do usually just have some kind of app that converts your crypto into dollars and then they take those dollars as payment. Crypto does not store value over time and has no inherent value at all. The biggest issue with crypto, and what I believe to be what is holding it back, is that it currently is not much more than a speculation. I think crypto does have a place in our modern world, under governance of the ability to create it and its crypto-copies and a backing of a physical asset like gold. Right now, all it has been is a get in and get rich quick scheme. It is a speculation, a hope that you will buy it so that you can sell it at a higher price to the next guy. It is not used in everyday business, it is not regulated against inflation, it is not an investment, it is not a currency. It has potential but is not there yet. Our Financial world is nowhere near great, but I believe it is better than where we would be if crypto took over. 



Photo Photo by [David McBee] (https://www.instagram.com/davidmcbee/) from [Pexels] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/bitcoins-and-u-s-dollar-bills-730547/)
