---
title: 'New Era Debt, Unprecedented Economic Theory'
draft: false
date: '2018-09-12'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-351264.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Debt
  - Economy
  - Bailout
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Tonight, I want to discuss a topic that I can say I haven’t really read about or seen come up much in respect to economic discussion. The topic discussed the applicability of economic theory and today’s economic systems. This may sound more in depth than the average person may want to dive into economics, but I promise if you hang in, it’s not going to be that bad. I think it will not be that bad because I want to focus on a relatable area of economics, that is credit. There will be a short review of credit, but past that I want to discuss credit in regard to if it is incorporated into a lot of the theories we use today to create policy and economic oversight. 

To begin, credit is nothing new at all. David Graber, in his book The First 5000 Years, describes first known debts as far back at 3500 BC inscribed on clay tablets.  If debt is so old, then how could it not be a relative topic in modern economics. That, I would suggest, is because ever since the great depression of the 1930s, debt has been ever changing. Prior to the depression, debt was relatively simple. Debts were personal and national, there were interest rates as you would expect, and lenders and borrows generally created relationships outside of the loan as it was in both party’s interest to do so. After the great depression, that all changed. The great depression created an incentive to the government to help the people. People no longer trusted banks and they no longer trusted the stock market. Investment in companies and bank loans are what mainly provided the funds for businesses, innovation, and economic prosperity at the time. The response to the depression is what started bank regulations. The drop of the gold standard, regulations on reserve fractional banking, and federally insured depositor’s insurance were some of the most impactful reactions to the great depression. For the first time in 5000 years, financial incentives are altered in ways not described before. Very simply put, this protective legislation allowed banks to be riskier with depositor’s money with now worry on both the depositors and the banks, as each party knew the deposits were guaranteed by the federal government. Imagine if you went to the casino and on borrowed money, you’d likely be very cautious with it, and the person you borrowed it form would likely want to know what you were planning on doing with it. Now imagine the same scenario, but this time a third party came in and told you and the person you borrowed it form, no worries, I’ll protect the loaning agents loan. So, if you go out, the loaner won’t be out money, and you won’t have to pay me back either, any losses are covered. That’s basically what happened. When you deposit your money in a bank, it doesn’t stay there. The bank uses that money to make loans, but everything is covered under federal guarantee, o even if the bank fails there is no losses. This completely contradicts tradition loaning practices and incentives and is not something that I see as a part of economic thought through history. 

There is a common assumption in economic thought, that is “the rational man”. The rational man basically says when people are left to their own power, they will do what they believe is in their best interest. While there are exceptions to this rule, in the sense of common rationality like the majority of people don’t think heroin is a rational choice, this rule is assumed to be as close to true as economist can get when it comes to predicting people’s decisions. The point of the rational man I want to discuss is debt. Prior to the depression, as discussed, debt was taken more seriously as it was in both party’s best interest to make good on payments. This kind of rationality is what economists assumed when developing economic theory.  While it has been nearly 100 years since the start of these kinds of policies, that is not that much time. So even economists like Keynes and Hayek, while they may have been alive during the creation of disincentivized borrowing, it was something they never seen before. If they were to discuss it, it would be decades after their deaths and before any results began to show in the financial system.  This is the real point of the article. We are playing in realms outside of traditional economic theory. It’s like maybe in physics where you hear them talk about the 4th dimension and how it’s sort of impossible to visualize because we live in a world where we only sense three dimensions. I would guess if you were to go back in time and talk to economists of the past, you told them that in the future there would be 0 risk guaranteed loans backed by the federal government, they’d tell us we were crazy. That defies the building blocks of economics. Econ 101-to the last highest-level econ class you may ever take, it’s all based off of supply and demand and incentive. By taking the risk out of loans, we’ve effectively raised the supply to infinity! I am beginning to think it may take some new age economist discussing economic theory unlike anything we’ve heard before to make sense of this non-sense (non-sense even worse than socialism). I will just finish it off with a point I’ve made time and time again and will continue to make, legislation. You cannot legislate the economy into a corner. People are driven by what they perceive to be their best interest. If you try to force the market away from natural equilibrium, you’re going to find yourself in some trouble. We, or at least I, hear about it all the time in the news. Student loan default at an all-time high, is it time for forgiveness? All while credit card, bank loans, auto loans, borrowing on social security, debt ceiling, national debt, IT ALL KEEPS INCREASING. Are we headed for a national crisis, are we headed for a recession or possibly depression, are we headed for a world where the US dollar isn’t the standard? If you ask me there’s only two paths we can take now, rip the bandage off now and deal with the very intense and very long-lasting burn or keep pushing it to the future. Continue with the bail outs, continue with the too big to fail, continue playing around with the financial system that currently is the base of international business, the hemorrhaging will be too heavy to stop and all we will be able to do is sit back and watch our country bleed out.  

[Photo] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/architectural-design-architecture-banks-barclays-351264/) by [Expect Best] (https://www.instagram.com/expectbestweb/) from [Pexels] (https://www.pexels.com/)

Check out the Rude Thoughts [Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/?ref=bookmarks) page and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)  
