---
title: >-
  The Importance of the Presumption of Innocence and President Trump's New North
  American Trade Deal.  
draft: false
date: '2018-10-07'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-534204.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Law
  - Innocence
  - NAFTA
  - USMCA
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
While I enjoy economics much more than political bickering and cultural appropriate, politically correct nonsense, every once in a while there is a topic that pulls me out of the world of economics. This evening, that topic is the presumption of innocence. I will be discussing two topics in short tonight, partly because I don’t think it necessary to discuss them in great length to get my point across and partly because I’ve been wanting to discuss both of them and fit a new article into my busy schedule. I will be addressing, as stated, the presumption of innocence and the creation of the USMCA (United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement) along with President Trumps thoughts surrounding the deal. 

I will begin with the presumption of innocence. As I’m sure basically everyone is aware of lately, Justice Kavanaugh, need I say more? I am not here to discuss specifically Justice Kavanaugh in length, but very quickly. Do I believe something happened to Dr. Ford, yes. Do I believe those actions were committed by Justice Kavanaugh, no. I personally believe the truth is somewhere out there in the middle, maybe. Could it possibly be that Dr. Ford and Justice Kavanaugh had some kind of fling or interaction at some point in their life and Dr. Ford was also sexually assaulted at another time in her life and she’s merging the two? That is just speculation and honestly, I obviously don't know. The only two people that do know are Dr. Ford and Justice Kavanaugh and what I really care about is finding the truth. This is where the presumption of innocence comes into play and is so important. One cannot be vilified for a crime they have not been proven guilty of in America, yet as we see in this case, that is exactly what happened. There is no corroborating evidence of any kind at all when it comes to this case. It comes down to he said she said. While you can have empathy for Dr. Ford, or for that matter any victim, testimony cannot be the only grounds for conviction. I don’t think I need to explain this, but people lie. People lie for personal gains, people lie to attempt to advance agendas, people lie just to lie. Even past that though, the founding fathers of this country understood the dangers of guilty until proven innocent. Remove the presumption of innocence from our society and government and we are headed for very bad times. The government could simply jail you for whatever they seem fit on the grounds of a claim. The police could arrest you without cause or reason. A man’s life could be ruined by unsupported claims. It is very important to seriously understand the repercussions of living in a society that bases law and order off emotion and feeling. It is the concept, holding this idea very high with societal importance that is so important, not the example. That is really what it comes down to, we can understand and empathize with the accuser, we can work to improve our abilities to find evidence and convict those who are guilty. As a society, we cannot allow the presumption of innocence to be lost, if we do, America will only exist in history books. 

President Trump, as stated, has created the greatest trade deal in US history, USMCA. Fist, what is the USMCA. To understand that, we should start with it's predecessor, NAFTA or the North American Free Trade Agreement. NAFTA was the agreement between the US, Mexico, and Canada that regulated trade on the North American Continent. The specifics aren’t that important to the everyday person, but basically NAFTA was a relatively successful strive to create advantageous trade between the United States, Mexico, and Canada. Often I listen to [Peter Schiff] (https://www.europac.com/), on [his most recent podcast] (https://youtu.be/PU0z3nrKKmc) he discussed President Trump's new deal. Just a quick point, while Mr. Schiff does have libertarian minded policy views, he is very “call it as it is”. When any politician does good, regardless of party affiliation, he recognizes them and when they do bad he calls them out. According to Mr. Schiff there are a few changes that will be implemented with the change from NAFTA to the USMCA.  They involve some greater exports to Canada, which, in theory should reduce how much we have to spend on imports. (selling more than we were in the past and raising more money on a national level) But by his accounts, it will be relatively small, but still in a better direction. Another major part of it are some steel and car manufacturing changes, but they are not as good for America in the sense that it will raise the purchasing price of some goods and therefore cost the citizens more. Like before, it is not anything that is going to rock the economy or be that impactful, it's just more in the opposite direction we would like to go. The biggest part of the USMCA is not what it is, but what it is not. This is where I get a little bit into something I don’t like about President Trump. Take a look [here at President Trump’s tweet archive referring to NAFTA] (  http://www.trumptwitterarchive.com/archive/nafta/ttff) and you will see he has said things like “NAFTA, worst trade deal ever made” and “NAFTA, the worst economic U.S. deal in history”. What did he do to change it? Well, not really much. The USMCA is supposed to be this America first, huge, advantageous deal  and we got less than 1% bump in exports and not so friendly car and steel tariffs. While I am 100% happy that President Trump won the presidency over Democratic Nominee Clinton, he baffles me when he does stuff like this. In my economically minded opinion, he is blowing this new deal waaaaaay out of proportion, like it’s going to put America’s economy back on top of the world or something. He didn’t really do very much, but he surely will ride it as if he’s changed the future of America’s economy for centuries to come. But that’s President Trump for you, and I'll take some overblown, big headed tweets over “democratic socialism’ any day. 
