---
title: When Policy Turns Into Oppression Olympics
draft: false
date: '2018-08-29'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-129112.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Policy
  - Legislation
  - Equality
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
I am writing this article fresh out of my Gender and International Economics class. It is a direct reflection of my thoughts as I sat through the class, but I will not be going into specific detail about the class itself. Basically, I would like to discuss policy and legislation. To discuss policy and legislation, there are some claims that need to be made to ensure that the discussion exists in the correct context. The claims that need to be made are the purpose of policy and legislation. The purpose of these two acts differs depending on the time period, government, country, and more. For our purpose and the purpose of this article, I am discussing policy and legislation in America in 2018. This means the purpose of policy and legislation is protect the rights as specified by the constitution, restricting no American Citizens rights unless they are infringing upon the rights of another. Example, you have the right to life, unless you are infringing upon another’s right to life and they use legal and appropriate force which may happen to be ending your life. Also necessary is the point made that social dysfunction and policy created to combat social dysfunction are two separate conversations. This means that, for example say some proportion of the population was born with antlers (like a deer). They were treated unfairly and immorally. The discussion of why, how, who, etc. is one discussion, and combatting the dysfunction is another conversation itself. You could just say “No being mean to the antler people”, but would that solve anything?

In America we know that inequality exists. Inequality exists everywhere in basically every aspect of life in one way or another. Finance, age, height, number of times you get pulled over when the cop could have “pulled over that other guy that was going faster than you”. At what point does inequality need to be addressed? If you pay attention to the news in the slightest bit, I’m guessing you’ve seen the attempts to combat wealth inequality. Now, we’ve pushed it way past that and are putting policy in place to combat this “social dysfunction”. That is in quotations not as a quote, but in the other reason quotations are used, which is to imply a meaning other than the normally assumed one. Wealth inequality is not a social dysfunction for multiple reasons. To begin, there is massive effort inequality that exists, but that is not taken into consideration when evaluating wealth inequity. Also, in America you are not promised that you will succeed and be the all you could ever dreamed, you are simply promised that no one will unfairly get in your way. We all have, or do in theory, equality of opportunity. Finally, wealth inequality is subjective. To take the subjectivity out of it, normally simple yearly income is used to evaluate any inequality. Since yearly income, the definition of poverty, and what it means to be rich doesn’t mean the same to every person, yearly income is a poor unit of measure. That is what we use though so that is what we base policy from. The next step is to find the trends, who is financially worse off? This is where my previous statement about the dysfunction itself and how to combat it comes into play. Anecdotally, when can find instances for any statistic you want to bring to the table. White people make more than African Americans, African Americans make more than white. Men make more than women, women make more than men. Whatever you want, I don’t care, throw it in there. I am not discussing the statistics, I am discussing policy. 

When we as a society start looking at these differences and want to make change, we often end up with something like affirmative action or ethnic diversity mandates. While the goal is to “make everyone equal”, I believe it does quite the opposite. We are enforcing the thought there is an inequality that exits because of race, gender, or whatever, and we want to fix that. Maybe there is a genuine issue that exists that needs addressed. But there’s a bigger problem that this creates. As soon as you say that the woman needs their own gender stimulus, and African Americans need their own race stimulus, and the LGBT community needs their own sexuality stimulus, there will always be someone somewhere, more oppressed. You have just created the oppression Olympics, who can be the most oppressed, who is the farthest away from the all-powerful straight white male, who gets the oppression gold medal? Now policy is doing the opposite it has intended as the higher up the oppression podium you find yourself, the opportunity for you is changed accordingly. But according to who? Someone must measure the oppression levels and decide how much oppression is equal to how much ease in another area of life. Plus, this also requires the creation of the privilege police (and you thought a space force would be expensive and difficult). We need someone going around making sure that the oppression hierarchy stays in order so that they can ensure that the correct people are getting the correct amount of oppression compensation. This is where we are headed if we continue down the current path.

What is the solution, we hear complaints like this often?  “We need to stop global warming, we need to reform the prisons, we need to have free and total health care”! Ok, how? “Well, just make it free”. Unfortunately, it doesn’t work like that. But, for this conversation, I do have a suggestion. I can go into the entire free market speech, but you’ve heard it before, and governments can’t operate like free markets. So there at least must be some policy somewhere. I will explain it as I were a business owner. To begin, I wouldn’t have more on the application than what is necceisary for me to determine if you could legally work for me and complete the task at hand. What does this mean, applications would basically have a name blank, a “Are you legally permitted to work in the US” blank, a “Are you an adult or minor” blank, and finally a section for experience/skills. I don’t care if you white, black, red, blue, green, have 10 piercings, are a man, woman, whatever, I don’t care. While I am a free market supporter, if we are going to have policy I would rather see it like this instead. Where instead of asking everyone’s race and gender so we can keep track of it to make sure there’s enough physical attribute diversity, we just throw it out and look at just your ability to complete the job. We are so caught up in this nonsense that we are creating unfairness based on the color of someone’s skin or sex, but all in the name of fairness. Its honestly a joke, and personally, I don’t think it will stop until we meet the ultimate oppressed. We find the person out there that has it worse than anyone else and society gives them free college, higher pay, or better position at work simply because of their physical characteristics and all of it means nothing. Then maybe we’ll figure out that true fairness is leaving people to their own will, their own drive, their own goals, and let them make themselves out of themselves. Don’t give anyone anything, just make sure no one is maliciously getting in anyone else’s way. 

[Photo](https://www.pexels.com/photo/white-house-129112/) by [Aaron Kittredge](https://www.pexels.com/@aaron-kittredge-35519) from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/)
