---
title: 'Simple Overview of Relevant Economic Theory '
draft: false
date: '2018-03-09'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-251287 (1).png
categories: thought
tags:
  - Money
  - Economics
  - Theory
  - Keynes
  - Hayek
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Waking up this morning, I did not end up going to work. This provided me with plenty of time to get out a new article. This is somewhat like a Daily Ponder in the sense that it is coming off the top of my head and I am writing it in one sit, with little to no revision. This article will be all about economic theory and thought. Before you slam your laptop shut, cringing at the thought of economic theory, that’s not what this is. Obviously, I will be discussing economic theory, but I will be leaving out boring text book stuff and keep the economic jargon to a minimum. I am hoping to discuss the main strengths and weaknesses of each system along with attaching them to common issues we see in todays society. Clear as mud, right? Just read on and I think you’ll get a good understanding of my goal with this article. Also, this is no where near an exhaustive list of theories, causes, effects, etc. This is a very simple breakdown of the most popular economic theories that the everyday person may hear on the news or see on someones Facebook feed, and a little bit about each.  Also, many economic theories are also governance and political theories. You’ll see that as we continue.

Lets start with the one most everyone is likely familiar with, capitalism. We hear about capitalism a lot, and it is blamed for many of the problems that exist in America today. What is it? I ask this because many leftist claim that capitalism is ruining our country and is a pitfall into wealth inequality which Is the major reason for social issues today. Capitalism is a system of minimum government intervention, private property, and a focus on creating wealth. This means for you, that the systems goal is to do things like promote job growth, increase GDP, and allow the people of the society to own the products of their labor. This also means, in the economic sense, that things like welfare systems go out the door. In the sense of capitalism, they are a waste of resources that could be used for the further creation of wealth. This initially seems selfish and possibly cruel, but as I will reiterate in the free market section, real world examples have shown otherwise. For example, look at the sectors of health care that are “capitalist” and “socialist.” Where government intervenes, you have expensive, inefficient, and ineffective health care. In the private sector, say Lasik eye surgery for example, you have a very efficient system where, in very little time, the procedure advanced to the point where it is an affordable out of pocket procedure without insurance and is preformed with high quality.  Because capitalism breeds competition, the inefficient and poor-quality producers are flushed out of the market very quickly, leaving the best to basically bid down the cost of business against each other. The biggest pro of capitalism, I believe, I that it raises everyone’s wealth and level of living. It promotes cheap and effective systems that work their way down to the poorest as systems continue to advance and we end up with a system like today where basically everyone has a car, a home with heat and a/c, and more. The biggest “flaw” of capitalism is wealth inequality. In reality, it is not a flaw at all. Many complain that the rich get richer at the expense of the poor, but this is simply not true. The rich get richer because they invest, they make products, and people buy them. If the poor want to get rich, taking money form the rich and giving it to them does nothing but incentivize them to continue to do what they’re doing. If you make $500 a week, and you spend that on shoes, alcohol, and going out, that is not the fault of the rich. But blame is often placed on them, usually under the fallacy that wealth can only be created/gained at the expense of another. 

This brings up the next economic/political theory of socialism. Socialism is marketed as the most moral system of all. This is what every country, every system should use because there is no worry of poor people, or people not receiving health care. But is it? Socialism is when the means of production, distribution and exchange are owned/regulated by the community as a whole. This means that if you are a business man and you create a product, the product, the profit, the production, are all owned and regulated by the society. There are some advantages to this, like relative wealth inequality is lower. Why did I say relative wealth inequality?  Check out my article The Economic and Social Dilemma of Wealth Inequality, Poverty, and Violence. The basic idea though is, a society that has wealth inequality of $100 have less social issues than a society with wealth inequality of $1,000,000 even if the yearly salaries of the $100 inequality range from $1000-$1100 and the salaries of the $1,000,000 inequality range from $1,000,000-$2,000,000. The money a society makes does not matter, it the inequality inside the societies economy that causes social issues. This idea is complex and requires more than one sentence to discus, which is why I wrote a short article on it and will likely write another longer article on it one day. Socialism is the land of unicorns, butterflies, and rainbows under one very strict condition. Everyone in the society must agree that it how they would like to live, otherwise it is immoral. Yes immoral, that is a very strong word to use in the setting of economic thought. The issue with socialism is that if someone does not agree with it, yet the government is forcing it on them, their labor, their life, is being stolen form them. That is something that cannot be replaced. If you spend 12 years of your life going to medical school and then the government tells you must provide for the community with no restrictions and any profits you make must be shared with the community at the threat of jail, they are stealing form you. Here is the difference between socialism and capitalism. In capitalism, if you want to be a charity doctor, go for it, nothing is stopping you. If you want to be plastic surgeon and make a bunch of money, more power to you and feel free. In socialism, if you want to be any doctor, you have to be a charity doctor, because you’re not going to make money. Anything and everything you produce is owned by the community. This stifles technological advances, competition, efficiency, and not to mention it is very expensive. Tax rates in socialist societies must be very high, and often still do not cover all the costs of common socialist welfare subsidies like healthcare, free college tuition, basic income, and more.  Unless every member of the society agrees, socialism is an immoral government and economic system. 

Now we move onto the all-powerful and mighty communism. Communism seems like its making some kind of return among young college kids as an acceptable alternative to socialism and fight against capitalism. I don’t really need to say much about communism, except, go read a history book. Communism in theory has this hakuna matata feel to it. Everything is owned by the state. There’s no social classes, no wealth inequality, and everyone is it in together for the state. Then when you look at real world examples, you see terror and disgust at the hands of communist rulers. The problem I see with communism is that the government decides what you do, how it will be done, and then they keep all the goods. Arguments have been made, why can’t a communist ruler just let the people make their own choices and kind of sit back and make sure everything runs smoothly? Well yes, that is a possibility, but then you are not practicing communism. That would be more like a loosely ran monarchy with a really nice king. The point of communism is the state, everything for the state, and don’t worry, the state will take care of you. It promotes compliancy, surrendernace, from what societies have experienced its just a big lie. The only seemingly successful communist regime is China, and they are moving out of the definition of traditional communism by allowing personal wealth to flourish and their citizens to begin to own the products of their labor. They’re also making massive amounts of money off America, but that is another discussion in itself.  True communism has proven time and time again to not work. It halters personal growth and competition. Citizens simply sit back and obey, knowing all will be taken care of. You may have heard that America is a society of sheeple (sheep people who just go along with the heard). Review the history of communist regimes, you’ll see real sheeple. 

To this point, what has been discussed are government/economic combined systems. All the above are both systems in one, so now I will switch gears a bit to specific economic theories and not systems of government. The difference being that you can have democracy that practices the theories I will describe, so they are not actual forms of government. Generally, some theories fit better with specific types of governance. But it is not necessary. As in forms of government, there are plenty of economic theories, each with strengths and weaknesses, and as you can probably guess they have a lot to do with barriers and control. The two major economic theories today include the free market Austrian theory of economics, and Keynesian theory of economics. I will begin with Keynesian as it is what we see dictating policy today. Keynesian economics was thought of by John Maynard Keynes in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, which was released after the great depression. Keynesian economics, in a nut shell, describes natural economic cycles of capitalism like a wave. During the high points, it is the government’s job to save and cut back spending. This is because there are longer and deeper bottoms to the wave. When an economy starts to fall, you are going into a recession or worse a depression, and the government needs to start spending all of that saved money to boost the economy out of the depression. If necessary, run a deficit and spend this money on public works like building roads, getting money in the pockets of citizens and getting them to spend. This is what is called demand side economics. That peoples demand is what drives the economy because if you have all the products in the world and no demand, it doesn’t matter. That is the very general and basic explanation of Keynesian economics. 

Austrian economics was comprised by many economist and Friedrich Hayek often gets the title for biggest supporter. Austrain economics is less government intervention, let Adam Smiths invisible hand (these are the unseen powers that control the economy and markets) guide the way. This is what I believe is the best system to go by for multiple reasons. To begin, if you have a failing market and you use subsidies to try and prop it up, you are only creating false demand. You making it appear that there is value in a place that naturally would fail. While yes it could come back, many more times history has shown that as soon as you pull that plug, it all comes crashing down even harder. This is the main theory behind capitalist, and it makes sense. If a recession comes, let businesses fail, let economic nature run its course. This type of economics requires very little regulation but there are also no life lines like Keynesian economics. This is an argument for supply side economics. Supply side economics is the idea that it takes business men and entrepreneurs to make businesses and create jobs. If you take tax businesses there will be less incentive to start new businesses and create more jobs. Its all about the marginal dollar. How much will it cost me to make one more dollar. With Keynesian economics and socialism, when you make that next dollar, in some cases over half of it is taken for subsidies and impending recessions.  In Austrian capitalism, when you make that next dollar you keep the majority of it and do with it what you please. People that are good at making money don’t want to just hold onto their money, they want to make more. You let them keep it and invest. Another very simplified example are people like Bill Gates and Sam Walton. They make (or made in the case of Mr. Walton) billions of dollars a year and created companies that employed a combined 1.5+ million people. That is direct employment, not counting all the people that need to be employed to make those businesses possible like contractors, accountants, etc. All this money is better off in their hands if they are the ones that had the ideas and means of creating these businesses, rather than taxing them and redistributing that wealth to people that are just going to spend it. The people that are just going to spend it and never make in investment will never hire anyone or make a product.

What do the two worlds look like, from my time reading and researching, my opinion is that one has one inherent flaw and the other has two. The flaw of Australian capitalism is that it will go into recessions. There is no question about this, we know it from history and we understand how this works. Businesses fail, technologies change, and eventually when you have an economy that is holding majority stake in one spot, it will eventually fail sending the economy crashing down but from that, new businesses and technologies will form. The flaw of Keynesian Socialism is twofold. Flaw number one, the economy is going to go into recession, no matter what. You can try and subsidize it, but all you are doing is stealing resources from the future to try and save the present. It is extremely inefficient because it can’t last forever. If an economy is failing, the market is saying this is not an efficient and productive use of resources. When you try to make it work and support it, all you are doing is pushing the crash further down the road for the next governing body to deal with. This is what is happening in America today. We are not economically sound. We are exporting our inflation of the dollar to China. We are subsidizing at an unsustainable level. Every year when the federal budget is discussed, we just try to spend our way out of debt and allow larger deficit spending budgets. If you have debt, taking on more debt is not the solution to getting out of debt. Which brings me to the second and worst flaw. This system is immoral. This system requires more taxation, and remember taxation is theft. The government, at the threat of jail, taxes your money. But your money is your labor, it is time out of your life.  They give it to others just so that they can kick the can of economic disparity down the road for the next administration to deal with. While this goes on the country believes that everything is great because were spending money, the dollar still seems strong, and the party keeps on pumping. Keynesian socialism is a magic ladder, where every time you go higher the rungs below you disappear. The only way down is to jump, so out of fear you keep going higher but the higher you go up the harder the inevitable fall will be. Free markets, Austrian economics, and capitalism are the only systems that produce and encourage self-responsibility. You are responsible for yourself, that’s it. You own the products of your labor and no one can take that from you. One final note, many will counter my arguments with democracy. What if there is a vote and the majority of people decide that the rich should be taxed to help the poor. One simple explanation to stop this. You are n a room with 2 other people. You worked, hard, all day long and you come back with a gallon of water, a nice big meal, and $10. One of the people worked half of a day and not very hard, so they have a glass of water, some bland noodles, and $3. The last person did nothing, so they have nothing. The person that did nothing and very little vote that its not fair that they don’t have as much as you. With threat of violence (jail in the real world) they take half of your water, half of your food and 6 of your dollars to split it up and make everyone more equal. Is this fair, is this moral? They voted, didn’t they? What does this do to your incentive to work, what does this do to their incentive to work?  What does this do to better the society as a whole and promote growth, it discourages all of it and sooner than later you have a society of unproductive people that need the government to take care of them because there’s no job creators anymore. There’s plenty of demand, but there’s no producers, there’s no one with any money left.
