---
title: A Hunter's Story pt. 1
draft: false
date: '2018-10-17'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-462023.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Hunt
  - Whitetail
  - Deer
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Beep, Beep, Beep, Beep…….I roll out of bed and smack my hand onto the nightstand beside me desperately searching for my phone. Finally, I’ve found it and I can turn my alarm off. 4:48 the time reads, set to allow for every minute of sleep possible. I go to turn the snooze on, but there’s Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter notifications lighting up the screen. The urge to sleep and the curiosity of my social recognition are at war. Whoever’s birthday, some photo likes, and another political tweet, but hey I’m up now at least. Rolling out of bed, I consider the possibility of not taking a shower. I know, 100%, if I do not shower I will be blaming myself later. Into the laundry room/ half shower I go. I fire up the dryer after spraying a fresh boost of scent elimination spray onto my camo, camo that has already been washed and tumbled twice in scent eliminating cleansers.  Now it’s my turn as I tiredly wash myself down with what I hope to be quality scent elimination shampoo/body wash (though it costs the same as every other brand, I expect something different from the one brand I choose for reasons beyond me).  Showers finished, temporary clothes are on, fresh scent eliminated clothes are in the scent lock tote, out to the car it goes. Boots-check, scent free camo-check, bow-check, license and tags-check, back pack with all the tools needed for after the hopefully successful hunt-check, but I’m missing something. I start the motor and heater of my SUV as I drag myself back into the house for a thermos of coffee; consumed by the thought of sleep but also all those deer I’ve been getting pictures of on my trail cameras all summer. With a thermos full of coffee and my hopes and tiredness sharing an inverses relationship, I work my way further from the everyday world and closer to the real world. 

Forty-Five minutes later I have made it. My obsession ensuring every aspect of my hunt is advantageous for me requires me to change all my clothes except for my base layers. I put on the scent free, tote locked, camo clothes that have spent nearly all their existence in only these two places. Hmmmmmmmmm, the loud humming of the paper factory to the north is almost as overwhelming as the bright perimeter lights that surround it flood the fields like the rising sun. I grab my bag, bow, and possibly most important coffee, and am headed off. To the south, a field edge tree stand at the back of a blind adventure through 9 foot tall corn and basically zero visibility, even with a light. To the west, shorter bean fields, a shorter walk, and to the avid hunter a higher estimated success percentage morning sit. The river stand at the back of the corn field will have to wait for another day, this morning the pinch point ladder stand has more going for it. I begin the walk, just as every early hunting morning, my mind fills with the anticipation of breaking the nearly 2-year dry spell. The last successful dear hunt happened in in late October/ early November of 2016, and I am eager to break this spell as soon as possible. I’m nearly to the stand and ever step that seemed like there was still one thousand more ahead of it has minimized to basically zero. The lights of the factory have faded with the sound of the machinery, leaving me in now flooded darkness and overwhelming silence. I have navigated the ease of the open field and now must work my way through the dense woods and hopefully stumble my way quietly as possible to the stand. Just as I go to turn on my phone flash light, a loud noise behind me. It sounds like a deer jumping out of its bed, but I haven’t done anything to spook it I don’t think. I have every aspect of scent controlled covered that I can, the wind is in my favor blowing any residual scent away from the direction I have been alerted to. As I stand frozen, I listen, and the lack of noise has rebuilt my confidence to move. I hear no threatened blowing, no concerned stomping, no crashing through the brush to escape potential danger. The spooked deer jumping out of its bed must have momentarily ignored its instincts.  I work my way through the woods and am finally standing at the base of the tree stand. 

For the next hour, I sit and think. I look out over the fields, as my eyes have adjusted to the lack of light by now. As I sit, I think about school, this blog, my lovely fiancé, the new life that is my first nephew making his way into this world less than a day ago. Like the walk, sunrise seems like 1000 years away, as I sit, think, and search for the bottom of my coffee thermos, it’s here without a minute to spare. As the light scatters across the sky and brightens all that is in front of me, there it is, the outline of what I have been waiting for moving its way through the beans, straight towards me. I grab my bow and my heart begins to pump like what I have imagined it to be if the world record buck was walking out in front of me. But this morning, it is not a world record buck, instead a doe makes her way closer knowing nothing of me. This doe, unbeknownst to her, has put the weight of the world on my shoulders. I am trying to break my unsuccessful 2-year streak. The practice, the time spent scouting, checking cameras, filling mineral stations, hanging tree stands, knocking on doors and blind calling property owners for permission, and more, has all come down to this moment. Sanding at 30 yards away, she is as clueless as can be as I draw my bow back. The pressure sent my adrenaline into over drive and I find it hard to hold my bow steady. I let it down, taking deep breaths and trying to refocus myself at the task at hand. Again, I draw back, but she has moved, not too far though. I take the 30-yard pin on my bow sight and place it over her vitals, wishing nothing but the most humane and painless end possible. The moment has come, the two-year streak is over, I squeeze the release, the arrows flies. My bow whips the string as the limbs release the pressure. The energy drives the razor tipped arrow at close to 300 feet per second, flying through the air with stealth and lethality. The arrow rockets closer, looking good, my dry spell is almost over, and then just below the doe it drops, missing her completely and sinking into the ground almost as fast and hard as my self-disappointment.  She jumps a few feet, looks around and calmly walks off knowing not of her near fate. After ranging the distance, she was a bit further away than I initially measured. Also, after looking at pictures from a near buy trail camera, it actually was a very small buck with tiny antlers too small to see at 30 yards. To some that would’ve matter but I wouldn’t have really cared. 

This is the deer story not often told but often played out. It sucks, but it’s part of every hunters story. I’ve shot ping pong balls at 20-30-40 yards. I’ve shot swinging water bottles time and time again. I’ve shot the end of my arrows, breaking off knocks and ripping apart fletchings. That doesn’t always cut it, as many know. Hunts like this are the hardest to walk away from because you want to just stay up in the stand until you get that next opportunity, that next shot. But, often that doesn’t happen, you end up walking back to the truck replaying that shot, that entire scenario over and over and over and over again.  While I am very thankful I did not non-fatally injure the animal, it did not go as wished either. This is what I am left with until the next time that alarm pulls me out of bed and I find myself walking to my stand again, fading out of the factory lights behind me into the hopes that lie ahead. 

Check out the Rude Thoughts [FB page](https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)

[Photo] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/clouds-cropland-crops-dawn-462023/) supplied by [Pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com/) through [Pexels.com](https://www.pexels.com/)
