---
title: Is College Debt Economically Justifiable
draft: false
date: '2018-03-08'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-210585.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - College
  - Debt
  - Bubble
  - Worth It
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
College, you have to go, right? If you want a successful and financially stable career, what other options do you have?  The days of working a good paying factory job that pays enough to support a family of four and allows you to retire with a nice pension might be over, at least that what I hear. Its off to university, often right out of high school. Little to no work experience, standardized testing, and a hope, a dream, that when you graduate you’ll be…….off to graduate school.  Many internet sites, slate.com and thinkprogess.org to name a few, report that slightly over 50% of college students drop out of their studies and stop pursuing their undergraduate degree. It is also stated that they are dropping out of 4-year degrees at the 6 year mark, and finally that we have the lowest graduation completion rate of the developed world. There are more than a few parts of this that sound odd, and we haven’t even made it to the repayment part yet. What is going on in the world of college education today. While I may not be an economist, yet, there is one topic I should be able to speak on, and that is the American college experience. Its time to dive in and try and figure out what in the world is going on.

Starting with straight, easy to calculate statistics will hopefully make it easier to progress into the more difficult sections. According to collegedata.com, the average cost per year to attend a private college in 2016 was $34,740, a public college for state residents was $9,970, and out of state resident was $25,620.  That is very similar to my college experience, attending a public college for 4 ½ years and being a resident of the state where I attended college. When this is combined with some of the claims expressed in the beginning of the article, does this mean that some students are paying  over $200,000 for their degrees because they’re going to private school and taking 6 years to complete a 4 year degree, some of which who don’t even end up graduating? Why is school so expensive, I hear many claims about school costs all the time. Older generations talking about how they were able to work a part time summer job and pay their way through an undergraduate degree and graduate with no debt. This seems like a dream, an impossibility, today. Let’s jump back to state residents at public universities, to keep the possibility of this being true at its highest and compare. 1970 average college tuition at a public college, $358 per year, according to deltacostproject.org. I completed my undergraduates degree at Wright State University, their tuition in 1970 for 1 year was $489 (3 full time quarters) so they are a little above the 1970 average but right at the current average. 1970 federal minimum wage was $1.60, so one year of college cost about 224 labor hours at the most. 2018 Minimum wage is $7.25, with the average public college cost discussed earlier, that’s about 1,375 labor hours at the most. Does that mean minimum wage is too low, or is college too expensive? Were here to discuss college, so maybe I can figure out what is going on with such high college costs. 

There are many theories to the rising cost of college that I have heard on podcasts, through radio, and in documentary’s. The theories in a way feed on each other and a 2015 article from the New York Times, The Real Reason College Tuition Costs So Much, I think, explains it all well. Since the times when a college student could pay their tuition with part time work during the summer, education funding has been cut. This required universities to raise the cost of tuition. As tuition began to move higher and higher up, students and cost cautious parents were questioning what they were paying such high tuition for. To make universities more appealing and worth the raising costs, universities could increase options and luxuries. More sports teams, recreation centers, gymnasiums, and better campus housing to name a few. This also increased costs, but not as drastic as the lack of funding, and it increased the universities value compared to cost. Now that costs are going up and up, students loans come into existence. Students loans initially were taken out by private investors and had something like home equity to back them. This means the investor was very interested in matters like likelihood of graduation, degree major, academic history, and more as these effected likelihoods of getting a better job and repayment success. Now student’s loans are federally guaranteed. No longer are investors telling students they can’t have a $100,000+ loan for a college degree that will only qualify them for a job making $30,000 a year. Students are not as concerned as they know they’ll get the loans and will not have to justify the cost of the school they want to attend and can worry about repayment later. Schools know that loans are guaranteed and can start really raising costs and offering even more bells and whistles. Again, students don’t mind as they know they’re guaranteed the loan and see schools with all these special programs and centers as a place with better education than the college down the street without it. The school adds more and more as they compete, and the students expect more and more and don’t worry about costs. With this we end up in the system we have today; theatre arts, gender studies, and psychology degrees that offer little to no post gradation careers unless continued to the master’s level. But students feel so burdened in debt that they can’t afford a masters degree, or maybe want to pay off some or all of their undergraduate degree and never end up returning. The degrees themselves aren’t useless or pointless, they’re just not worth (in the sense of risk compared to potential return) the tens, sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars that are being paid for them. That is a lot but were not finished yet. This is because the entire supply/demand side of the topic needs discussed. Its seems to be a bigger cycle, that feeds off this one.

Normally, supply and demand are simple. When the supply for something goes up, the demand and price goes down. This is because the more of it that is out there, the less people must compete with one another to obtain that item. You would assume the supply is the degree holders (the supply of willing workers), and the demand is the job you get when you graduate (as that’s what you are needing). There is need for this job and you are trying to fill it, and that is how is being treated at least. People act as if they are the supply. The opposite is true, the demand is what is changing in the scenario of college degrees while supply stays relatively the same. The supply is the current available jobs. As demand goes up (the number of college graduates), there are more and more people competing for the same supply of jobs. That is why the price of college is going up, it can’t fit in the supply and demand of a college education anywhere else. The market of college graduates is completely saturated and so the price is rising, and the value of a college degree is becoming more inflated every day. I will attempt to now blend all of this together to be easier to digest, so hold on. The reason I am doing this is because there isn’t really a college debt crisis timeline that says when X college raised the number of students it would accept, the crisis began. It was more little bits here and there, policy changes, tuition cost increases, student demand, and more. None if it necessarily changed all in the same order and in the same intensity across all college campuses at the same time. Though, with that being said, there is one major culprit, there is one vessel that supply’s the system with the lifeline needed to continue in this way.
The real culprit of this mess, like the housing bubble, is guaranteed loans that stemmed from the price hike issues. Guaranteed loans allowed more people to go to school because lenders were no longer worried about repayment because they knew they were getting paid regardless. Demand increased as more college graduates were out competing for the same supply of jobs. Colleges could further rising costs as students with guaranteed payment were placing value on the bells and whistles and name prestige instead of the education itself. Now we have an overwhelming number of college degrees, devaluing the undergraduate degree (if everyone in America had $1,000,000 it would make $1,000,000 worth less; the same thing goes for degrees). It is almost as if the value of a high school degree is nearly nothing, an associate’s degree is what a high school degree was, and a bachelors is the equivalent to an associates or even high school degree for some fields. This is pushing even more people into school as they feel they need the lower level degrees to compete, repeating the cycle and increasing an already saturated market. We end up with what we have today, the college debt bubble. In a world without guaranteed loans students would be much more interested in the cost of college. Loaners would be more interested in the borrower’s ability to pay back. Universities wouldn’t be able to charge three, four, even five times the post-graduation salary of a job for the degree it requires. STEM, doctors, lawyers, maybe these degrees would remain expensive.  

Now that you know the market is saturated with a bunch of seemingly overvalued college degrees and even more graduates/dropouts with student loans to pay back, what is in it for you? Where should an aspiring young and able body go to make something of their life? You can go to college, just ensure that the degree you are getting is worth the time and money you will be spending on it. In the economic sense, you may be better off saving the forty, fifty, one hundred thousand dollars that you would’ve spent on college, and start a business, invest it, or buy a house outright and cut your monthly expenses down drastically to the point where you don’t need a higher paying job to afford a nice life. Plus, once you graduate and start paying back your loans, you need pay that covers all of your expenses plus your loan and then some to be worth it. If you find yourself working a job that you do not like or with regret, and your salary goes up the same amount as your expenses because of your college loans, then you just waisted 4 to 6 years that could’ve been used towards something that would’ve put you in a happier place with the same net income. College is not all that bad, I went after taking three years off after high school. Be sure you can get a job to make it worth it and at least pay back your student loans. It is very likely in the not so far future that many will stop paying on their student loans. This may be because they feel like it is worthless and could use the money towards something better. I believe the majority will be from graduates getting jobs that don’t pay enough to cover the loan payment. This is because they either can’t get a job in the field and must resort to low paying entry level high school education jobs, or the pay for their job is vastly lower than the amount borrowed to get the degree. Whatever the reason, and when it happens, you don’t want to be part of it. 

Finally, one last point about college and education in general. Why hasn’t education become cheaper? With everything available to us today, more years and years of free trail and error, research and development, the cost o education is going the opposite way one would expect. You don’t need textbook anymore, you can use one tablet device that costs the price of one text book and use it for all classes. Because of this you don’t need paper and a pencil, you don’t need chalkboards, whiteboards, markers and chalk. You can display everything on a screen or the wall and edit it directly form a computer in real time. There is the possibility to access parents and students more outside of the classroom is greater than ever. Everything in the world of education points to more efficiency, better communication, and less costs. Yet we continue to spend more and more for what seems like less and less. Ironically, I am releasing a Daily Ponder today about how you vote every day. Every dollar you spend, every sports cable package you buy instead of a book or subscription to national geographic is a vote. It is a statement saying that that is more important in your life than whatever else you could’ve spent the money on. That is why I believe that not only schools, but soldiers, public services employees, or charities struggle financially. All while athletes, sports teams, singers, and actors make in a year what many wont make in a lifetime.  
