---
title: 'I''m Back, with a short thought about "Fair Pay"!'
draft: false
date: '2018-08-14'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/anthony-ginsbrook-678771-unsplash.jpg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Fair Pay
  - Living Wage
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Well, as the title may imply, I am back. What happened, where am I going from here, there are many questions you may have that I will explain. I’ll begin with where I went. I disappeared..….for a while. I had an opportunity present itself outside of continuing my education and I was pursuing that as a test, to see what I really wanted to do with my life.  After about a summer of that, while I enjoyed it and I did learn new skills, it just didn’t seem like it was for me. So, with about two weeks before the fall semester starts for college, I decided that school was the path I wanted to take and therefore I am reigniting the flame that is Rude Thoughts and the pursuit of a master’s degree in social and applied economics. Not only am I hoping to fuel the fire that was before, but I am also hoping for a bit of a makeover. I am not wanting to change the themes, clear political stance, or goals. What I want to do is make Rude Thoughts all that is productive discourse and self-reflection. I have some ideas in mind, hopefully I can bring those ideas to the website soon. They should include thought prompts, games of thought, and maybe a few other things. Regardless, I am back, with a drive that I don’t know if I had before, as I really believe this is what I want to do. Now, onto todays topic, fair pay….

This will not be that long, and it will be an incomplete thought as it is my first Rude Thought in a while. But, as stated, fair pay. How do you tell if pay is actually fair? I mean, what if a burger flipper in New York, New York makes the minimum wage of $13 an hour while a burger flipper in New York, Kentucky makes the minimum wage of $7.25 per hour. FYI, New York, New York has a population of about 8.5 million and New York, Kentucky has a population of about 10. I believe that at its core, at its most basic, fair is whatever you voluntary agree to. If an employer posts a listing looking for help and you inquire as you may be looking for a job and you accept the jobs on agreeable terms, that would be fair would it not? I have noticed lately that there is an uprising in the idea that any work deserves a “fair livable wage”. Well, what does that mean? From my investigation, it basically seems to mean that if anyone works, then they should be compensated enough to live on…..I guess. Confusing, right? How much do you need to live on, are you in New York, New York or New York, Kentucky? Do you drive a brand-new car and live in a high-rise apartment overlooking the city or do you make ends meet with your 2 kids, full time job, and occasional child support payment? The variables are so vast, it makes it very difficult to say what fair exactly is. Unless you ask me, then fair is whatever the employer and employee agree to. Now, it is possible that the employee is maybe taking a job less than what they would like to be paid, or less than what they need to be paid. To begin, they are taking the job voluntarily, I’ve taken jobs like this in the past. Also, I think a job that isn’t quite what you were wanting is much better than no job at all. There is a scenario that I would conclude to be not fair. That would be a theoretical situation as to where say all the grocery chains came together in private and agreed to only pay baggers $x per hour, not matter what. That way they don’t have to compete against each other and competitive employment drives up the wage necessary to hire in employees for said position. But still, the employment would be voluntary, the lack of “fairness” would exist in the corruption created by the collusion of the retailers. In a free market economy, one of three things WILL happen. 1- No one will work for the fixed wage and the collusion will unanimously break. 2- No one will work for the fixed wage and the stores will be forced to fins other options like self-check outs. 3- (What I believe to be most likely) out of necessity of employees, one of the retailers will secretly break the terms of the collusion and pay just a bit more than the others hoping that they can get the needed employees without being noticeable. Regardless, eventually the corruption in the unfair system will be its ultimate downfall. Outside of corruption, when all is free and open, fair is the private deal made between the two parties. You cannot force fair, as soon as you do, it WILL be unfair to someone, somewhere. I do have more to say on the topic, but I need to get back into the “mode”, back into the mindset of writing on topics like this on a more frequent basis. Until then, if you agree with me, if you don’t, I thank you for taking the time to read this and look forward to writing more and expanding Rude Thoughts. 

Photo by Anthony Ginsbrook on Unsplash
