---
title: The Left's Position
draft: false
date: '2019-02-10'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/shirly-niv-marton-56167-unsplash.jpg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Political
  - Left
  - Democrat
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Recently, socialist democrat and New York Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (AOC) released what she called her “Green New Deal”. This deal was supposedly an outline of some of the biggest issue facing America, and in some instances the world, along with some “solutions”, you could call them. I won't dive too deep into what her deal says, at this point, there are hundreds of articles available for that need. But, her release of this new deal is very fitting to what I have been thinking about over the last week or so. The lefts position, their core argument, their explanation that….Trumps…. any opposition is what I wanted to explore. The link between AOC’s Green New Deal and this topic is assumed unarguable moral superiority. Many, if not all, arguments that come from the left, specifically the political left, are saturated with the belief that their ideas sit higher on the moral hierarchy than anyone else’s. What is possibly more concerning is the virtue signaling that goes along with it. Not only do they believe what they believe, but they believe they are solving all the worlds problems with virtue, with honor, for the greatness of mankind (or I guess in their words, humankind) and humanity. 

As the great Christopher Hitchens proclaimed “That which can be asserted without evidence, can be dismissed without evidence”. So, for such a bold claim, where is the evidence? AOC’s green new is a prime supporting example of this claim. Using fear mongering by publicly claiming that the world will be all but annihilated in 12 years or less from global warming, she proposes 100% renewable energy in the united states by 2020. Economics, societal impact, logistics, none of that matters, simply put the world is going to end unless we do what she says. Continuing, you may have noticed that a very common argument from the political left is that one’s success comes from another’s failure. Millionaires and billionaires obtain their riches through oppression and exploitation of the poor. This argument is fundamental to their claim of moral superiority. Claiming that one's success comes at the cost of another allows the argument to step down to a more basic and simple explanation, you got what you have through unethical means. Whether it be through theft, racism, privilege, or who knows what else, this claim opens the floodgates for politically left policy we see being presented today. Not only that, from their perspective, it justifies envy and whatever actions are necessary to “level the playing field”. Disproportionate taxation, abortion, environmental, gun control policies and more, all of the policy proposal regarding these topics are claimed to in the name of fairness or moral superiority. This is not to say that unethical practices don’t exist that need addressed. I am a fan of capitalism, but do not mistake that for crony capitalism. Big business and the government have no place being in the same hotel, let alone getting into bed together as they do now. But the solution is not to try and regulate and tax away all problems in the name of fairness. All you’ll get from that is more behind the scenes coercion. To really solve this problem you need a cultural change at the roots of society. So, you ask, what is the likely hood of that? In homogeneous societies like those of northern Europe, not too difficult. But in the cultural melting pot of America, that will be extremely difficult. The solution? To begin, leave people alone and stop telling them their lack of prosperity is from the product of another’s success. Stop splitting the country into haves and have nots. The reality is we are all “haves”. We are all in the global 1%, we all have American privilege. The self-proclaimed moral superiority of the political lefts ideas roots in the belief that this is not true. 

The claimed ultimate policy that would solve all of our problems has finally exposed itself as the fallacy that is “democratic socialism”. The foundation of socialism is built from the ideas expressed above. But the reality of socialism has been played out time and time again through history and can currently be witnessed in Venezuela. There are more than societal factors at play as to why the system collapses as it does. In Venezuela for example, their entire economy was based on product oil. Being a state-run business, decisions were made in the name of morality. The government came in and took control of basically all businesses as President Hugo Chavez, at the time, would go into towns and cites and declare all commerce property of the government by government decree. Everyone worked for the government and in turn, everyone was paid by the government. When individuals no longer owned the product of their labor, they no longer had any incentive to produce efficiently, innovate, or invest. They literally would work for the government to get paid by the government to use that money to buy everything they needed from, you guessed it, the government. This system undermines the power of markets, trade, and individual prosperity while making everyone an indentured servant to the government. To put it in very simple terms, no one would work to get ahead because they would not be rewarded with the product of their hard labor. This system worked for Venezuela, for one very big reason, oil. Venezuela has the largest known oil reserves in the world. Venezuela also doesn’t mass produce much of anything except oil. So when the local good suppliers had their production taken by the government to be equally distributed across the country, the producers again worked less as they didn’t own their products while also small villages and towns were at a disadvantage as the greatest need was the big cities where the greatest demand was. This is where we get back into the oil reserves. Since Venezuela had the largest oil reserves, they could export future production for supplies they needed today. This worked very well for them, especially as the price of oil continued to increase. But unfortunately, they were using their surplus as a bargaining tool for the future instead of investing. When the price of oil started to fall, suddenly the promises that Venezuela made weren’t worth as much as they promised them to be. Now with Venezuela facing massive debt and lacking savings as it was already spent on future promises, the government couldn’t supply the people with everything they needed. We hear a lot about the current administration and President Madura being at fault, but the reality is all the corruption and failing systems were in place long before him. He just happens to take control at about the same time the price of oil begins to fall, starting the cycle that led them to where they are now. I guess they did reach their goal, there is no inequality in their society.

What does the failures, mass poverty and starvation of Venezuela and the former USSR have to do with this new breed of socialism, Democratic socialism? These regimes that were built upon the idea of moral superiority through no inequality and public/government ownership of production were supplied at the government's demand. Democratic socialism is possibly worse as it values the systems that America was created to combat; the power of the ruling mob and the ownership of individual production. The political left has this idea in their head that we are a democracy. This is false and confuses me as to why time and time again I hear it repeated. We are a republic, which the founding fathers purposely intended as they knew the dangers of the ruling mob. Imagine there are three people in a room, one person took the time to grow their own food and produce their own goods. The other two did nothing and when they saw the prosperity of the other, they voted (2-1) to take some of the stuff out of “fairness” as the other had more than them. They did nothing, they didn’t work, but the power of democracy, or the ruling mob, granted them the ability to unethically take that which they did not produce. So now the third person stops producing as they know that it will just be taken and redistributed and now everyone has nothing. Extrapolate that out to an entire county and you have the failures and lack of ethics regarding democratic socialism and the exact scenario the founding fathers did everything they could to avoid.  The political left’s position is to voluntarily vote in this system! The reality is I believe that democratic socialism is only the first step. It starts with government-provided health care, free school, mandated equality and ends up as the government care system where even if you wanted to produce for yourself you would not be allowed. This undermines everything our great country was founded on in support of time tested and failed systems in the name of perceived moral superiority. 

For those interested, [Jordan Peterson] (https://youtu.be/TcEWRykSgwE) does a very good job discussing socialism through the societal phenomenon of Pareto distributions, yet again providing more evidence of why the idea fails.
 
Check out, like, and follow the RudeThoughts social media pages! 
Follow/Like me on [Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts), YouTube will be coming very soon!

[Photo] (https://unsplash.com/photos/6E6CMgFAUjc) provided by [Shirly Niv Marton] (https://unsplash.com/@sniv) through [unsplash.com] (https://unsplash.com/).
