---
title: Immigration
draft: false
date: '2019-01-02'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/prison-jail-detention-fence-54456.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Immigration
  - Wall
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Every DAY over a million people are screened by the FAA before boarding domestic flights. Every YEAR, less than 2 million immigrants successfully legally migrate to the country. Meanwhile the total number of illegal immigrants in the country has been decreasing since its peak of about 12 million in 2007, as recorded by the [Pew Research Center] (http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/11/28/5-facts-about-illegal-immigration-in-the-u-s/). My point, it seems likely that there are no screening barriers to immigration. Our ability to ensure the safe flight of the same amount of people every day that wish to migrate to our country every year, I believe is a strong indication of our ability to handle such a task. It seems to me that the idea of immigration and immigrants themselves are faced with more ideologic and stereotypical barriers than anything. As a country, though it’s hard to put it exactly into words, it feels as if there is a massive contradiction surrounding the idea of immigration. We want to build a wall, we want to let immigrants in. We want to ban “chain migration” but don’t want to separate families. I have an idea, which does have its flaws, but is based off a couple very important ideas. 1- We treat immigrants the same way we treat our own citizens. 2- This means we treat them as individuals, which means they are responsible for their actions. 3- We provide a legal migration program that is easy, efficient, and fast. But is partnered with harsh and unforgiving illegal migration policy. Finally, we drop stipulations, games, play arounds, or any kind of demands outside of following common law, I will explain this more further into the article. 

First, before my recommendations on regulation migration, I would like to start by addressing some misconceptions, preconceived ideas, or stereotypes that surround immigrants. The first on the list is jobs. Often, you may hear that immigrants are summing into our country and stealing all the jobs. Let’s dissect that a bit and see how that holds up against data. The Center for Immigration studies found that through the mid to late 2000’s, there were [4 jobs in America where immigrants were the majority employed] (https://cis.org/Memorandum/Jobs-Americans-Wont-Do-Detailed-Look-Immigrant-Employment-Occupation). General contract laborers (masons, drywall, etc.), agriculture graders/sorters, livestock laborers, and tailors/seamstresses. Since it was somewhat old data, I continued searching and immediately found an article less than 6 months old by the “highly factual” rated organization, Scientific American. [This article] (https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/anthropology-in-practice/what-are-the-jobs-that-immigrants-do/) agreed with most of the earlier findings, but with the addition of the landscaping industry rapidly increasing in migrant worker numbers.  On the complete opposite are the vast number of migrants coming to America for school, especially in medicine and engineering. My point, immigrants are not coming and stealing everyone’s jobs, they are coming and finding employment and opportunity where it is demanded. They are filling spots in our societies where there is a lack of willingness to work. One final point regarding accepting more members of a society. When a local population increases, how much it increases isn’t the most important measurement. The rate at which the society increases is what matters. I think we could agree that if there was one immigrant per year, they wouldn’t be “stealing our jobs”. Two likely wouldn’t be a problem either, or 10, or even 100. Where that line is depends on how stresses the local area’s resources and public goods are at the moment of immigration. A new member of a society, immigrant or not, will initially be a burden. They will require food, housing, clothing, etc. But, in the long run, assuming they work, they will be more beneficial for the society as they will demand more than they can provide for themselves, therefore increasing local demand for resources. That’s why 1 instant immigrant is not a problem, but one million coming all at once would be. Though in the long run, if there were a million immigrants to suddenly appear in one place at one time, their needs would combine with the societies and the local economy would grow to meet them. 

Another associated habit of immigrants is crime. Very often, you will see in the news that immigrants are coming into our country and committing crimes. This issue fails when tested against the rigors of research.   Oxford Research Encyclopedia’s Criminology and Criminal Justice field published a study in 2017 concentrated on this exact topic. [Their results] (http://oxfordre.com/criminology/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190264079.001.0001/acrefore-9780190264079-e-93) suggest that there is one very strong demographic characteristic that out-predicts any other, income, or more specifically whether or not you live in poverty. Those living in poverty go to jail at much higher rates and as well return to jail at much higher rates than any other race, religion, citizenship status, you name it. Poverty is a very strong indicator of one’s likelihood of being incarcerated at some point in their life. Because may immigrants live in poverty, there appears to a connection between immigration status and crime. Oxford isn’t the only research group to come to this conclusion. The CATO Institute, a source often considered to publish with a right of center to strong right bias, found similar results. In [their study] (https://www.cato.org/publications/immigration-reform-bulletin/criminal-immigrants-their-numbers-demographics-countries#full) focusing on the incarceration rates of “natives” vs. “legal immigrants” vs “illegal immigrants”, they found that both legal and illegal immigrants are less likely to be incarcerated than natives especially those with a high school diploma. Furthermore, illegal immigrants, post high school graduation, face the least likelihood of being incarcerated when compared to legal immigrants and natives.  Overall, I would argue that the crime argument doesn’t hold much power when discussing why we should or should not allow immigrants into our country. I just believe that if you are touting it off like a steam engine, well that’s exactly what you’re doing, just blowing smoke (or steam I guess technically). 

I have some statistics, I have what may seem to come off as an “open the boarder and let everyone in and run free” proposal. Well, don’t get too far ahead of yourself.  My suggestion on what we should do is as simple as I could make it, taking pieces from [Ben Shapiro] (https://www.dailywire.com/), a little libertarianism, and some economic thought. To being, the government still has a duty to protect its citizens and put its citizens first, otherwise it wouldn’t really be a government. Unless you pay your taxes to the government to just give them all away protecting other people/countries, I don’t really think this point is too controversial. So, what does that mean for immigration, well I think as a country we could adjust the immigration policy to incentivize immigrants to legally migrate. To do that, there is a twofold method; part one – make legal immigration as easy and simple as possible without compromising the possibility of real external threats using it to their advantage. My current idea would promote a process that rewards truth telling and law abiding with faster immigration process. So long as you are telling the truth and can prove it, and are willing to follow the law, then come on in. Part two - this would be partnered with strict and unforgiving policy against illegal immigration. As a country we do not have room for and cannot accept individuals who start their journey by breaking the law. Remember, this idea is coupled with the idea that those willing to be honest and law abiding will be rewarded, this is an entire immigration policy shift. I believe the incentivizing legal immigration and disincentivizing illegal immigration would provide the best result for handling immigration. Which brings me to my final point, the wall. I think we all know what wall I am talking about, and here are my thoughts on it. To begin, the government is absolutely horrible with money and if they can’t afford it, they shouldn’t build it. Considering that the government spends money like they just have their own printing press……..do I think it would be effective, to a degree yes. A wall would stop some amount of illegal traffic, it would be silly to think it wouldn’t do anything at all. Do I think there are other alternatives that could be tried first, I believe that would be a reasonable alternative. Finally, I am not going to talk about the politics of the wall because that what most of the decision to build it is, just politicians playing politics. I do think though that it would be a very big symbol. America has many statues and symbolic pieces, and that is what this wall would end up being more than anything. A big symbol that personally I think defies our great country. Being the United States, I believe we must address immigration differently than any other country in the world. I believe it is possible to manage immigration efficiently and effectively without compromising who we are as a county.  

Check out RudeThoughts [Facebook page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!

Photo provided by [Babawawa] (https://pixabay.com/en/users/babawawa-299001/) through [Pexel.com] (https://www.pexels.com/)
