---
title: What Is Going On?
draft: true
date: '2019-08-12'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/adult-angry-communication-1587014.jpg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Social Media
  - Division
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
A little over a week ago a person went into popular night life area and sadly killed 9 people and injured many more. This is something that everyone in the country has heard of, and something that also happened less than 10 minutes from my house and a few hours since I was in the exact area it happened. The horror that took place needs no further explanation. It has been spread across the news and used by both political/social sides as a weapon to fight a cause outside of what actually happened. This has nothing to do with any of that. Words do not exist that can help the victims and their families. The least I can do is talk about the culture. It may not be much, but it is something and it is what I have to offer. 

The initial reaction to something like this is the same time and time again. There is a group that looks for some kind of radical firearms policy reform and there is a group that that opposes that. There is a group that argues mental health and anything but gin policy and a group that simply opposes that. I am not by any means a physiologist, sociologist, or really that much of an academic. I have some decent (I say with great reservation) academic success, but that shows more fortitude to work and follow through than anything else.  I have my own ideas of what is going on and unfortunately there is a very strong possibility that it is a self-feeding cycle. All hope is not lost though, there is a very real possibility that the reality we live in does not need to continue the way it does. 

My thoughts in this topic are very simple, they take no thorough research or new ideas. From what I have observed and learned there are two are problems. The first one is the division that exists at every possible level of modern society. The second one is complete lack of reason, the lack of meaning, that exists. This is simply a residual of the prior, but its strength is so powerful it deserves its own category. I will start with the division. 

Division exist at every view point and corner of our society. We have adapted to hate without consequence. It is truly a sad set of circumstances we have fallen into. We hate for the smallest reasons and use it as a wedge to drive between anything we can fir the sharp edge into. From the simple idea of what brand car you drive (maybe not for all of us, but for some Ford vs Chevy o maybe gas guzzler vs hybrid has been a very device point)   all the way to whether the president of our great country is a Nazi or not.  The resolution only exists in every individual. You must make the choice to not contribute to this lifestyle. That is the only resolution that I believe has any real power. 

The second issue that I believe exist is the lack of meaning that has taken over our society. For the vast majority we have substituted meaning for superficial alternatives. Money, physical possessions, social status, they have all found places in our lives that mean more than what actually matters. This leaves meaningless meaning to a lot of people that exist in this society. We see record numbers of suicide and people wanting to hurt each other in mass casualty events. I don’t know really what the problem is, but what I do see is there is a consistent profile that exists amongst the people that commit these actions. We see time and time again males with not much left to live for committing these actions. They have no purpose, they have no meaning in their life. They have been belittled by society and told that they have no inherent purpose. This conversation moves into much deeper levels. The simplified version in my eyes is that simply all reason for being is being degraded. We are told by society and the news that being a man is toxic, living a religious purpose is purposeless, that the most opportunist county in the world is a fountain of oppression and hatred. 

Simply put, we live in a society where meaning and purpose matter have been disrespected. A man holding a door open for a woman or a man helping a woman in any way has been shifted from a sign of masculinity and respect into the delusion of disrespect and the idea that women are not capable. While you do not have to agree by it for humans, in the vast majority of nature, the male species had a purpose greater than reproduction. Men are inherently protectors, which should not be taken as a sign of disrespect or lack of capability. What seems to happen when you flood men with a lack of existence and purpose they do not know where to turn. They are beaten down by society to the point where they have no where else to turn. At that time they find a reason to exist, maybe not to live, but maybe to die instead. The society that beat down on them, that told them that they have no unique purpose, that they need to resist their natural instinct, now seems like an enemy. They do what any logical person would do, they combat the enemy. That results in 9 people dead that were out just looking to have a good weekend. Like I said, I’m no phycologist or sociologist, but to me it seems like we are headed in a direction that is moving toward detriment but hopeful destined for improvement. 

At the simplest version, stop being so angry. Why is everyone so mad, why is everyone so worried that someone else might think differently than them? Maybe you have something to learn. Even if you don’t agree, that doesn’t mean that there wasn’t something valuable shared. It sounds so cliché, but if we just stopped looking for division and instead looked for something valuable in what everyone else has to say it could be so beneficial. It sounds almost like utopia, but I think the police that had to shoot Conner would agree. They were hands down the hero’s that day and I am sure there are many people (including me) that are thankful they were there. But maybe instead the hero that day could’ve simply been someone asking a stranger how they were doing. Looking out for a another human and treating them as such. The event that happened at the Oregon District was extremely sad without a doubt. At the same time, what drive a person to think that was the answer? We say we shouldn’t name the assailant, but I think that masks him. It makes it seem as though he existed outside of our society and he found a way in. In reality he was a part of our society, he was a son and a friend. Something pushed him to think that was the only logical solution to his life. It is truly sad and truly avoidable that is so much greater than simply restricting guns or threatening with prison or the death penalty. 


Check out my [Facebook page] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/) and [Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)!

[Photo] (https://www.pexels.com/photo/man-wearing-brown-suit-jacket-mocking-on-white-telephone-1587014/) by [Moose Photos] (https://www.pexels.com/@moose-photos-170195) through [Pexels.com] (https://www.pexels.com/).
