---
title: >-
  The Government Household,  Part two of Imagine Running a House Like the
  Government 
draft: false
date: '2019-01-24'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/andy-feliciotti-579740-unsplash.jpg
categories: thought
tags:
  - United States
  - Economy
  - Debt
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
 Part two of [Imagine Running Your House Like the Government] ( https://rudethoughts.com/ponder/2019-imagine-running-your-house-like-the-government/)

I was listening to [Peter Schiff’s podcast] (https://youtu.be/fJDD7WXByGY), as I do most days, and he was on the topic of national debt, how we as a country and how it makes no sense. He had some very good points that I agreed with and wanted to share. Many of these points you may have heard before, yet time has proven that despite our efforts in recognizing the issue we fail at fixing them. Not much of a surprise, Schiff uses the household as the base of his example. He simply transitions the United States fiscal issues to a household scale. His example plays out as follows. Imagine you own your house, you have a car, maybe some credit cards, and make enough money to cover all your expenses. For whatever reason, as the reason does not matter, you decide to begin using the credit on your credit cards. Toy our best abilities, you are not able to fulfill your desires. Next, you move onto your home equity, converting whatever equity you have left in your house into a loan. Once this money is spent, you begin asking friends and family, and even going as far as trading future labor for more credit. You find yourself in a massive financial mess and you can’t see any way out. Your debts greatly exceed your income due to spending beyond your means of personal production. Luckily, you remember, you have another unused credit card! What do you do with it (or what would America do with it), immediately exhaust all available credit to continue your current lifestyle? Form the outside, you are looking great! Look at all the consumption and demand you are creating. But, from the inside, the story is quite the opposite. From the inside, you are over-leveraged in debt, unable to pay, and have exhausted all current and foreseeable future labor and resources towards repaying said debt. Unfortunately, the nightmare doesn’t stop there. 

Being overwhelmed with debt is a burdensome issue enough in itself, but it is the unseen consequences that make it so much worse. Debt in itself is not bad, it is a tool that can be used very responsibly to allow you prosper. It all depends on what the debt is spent that matters. I will use a simple example elaborate on these claims. Imagine you are creditworthy for $50,000. You could borrow and invest that money or spend it on lifestyle and habits. The easy example; you purchase a tow truck and start a local business, start an online business, or maybe acquire some prime real estate at a good price. The bad example; you finance a car, or a college degree that vastly underpays, or its just credit card credit that you use on shopping or a home remodel that isn’t going to increase the value of your home at or above $50,000. What is the core difference between these two investments? Essentially, it is what is backing the loan. When you spend a line of credit on a business or something that will have more value in the future than it does today, then your loan is backed by something more valuable than the loan itself. If you spend a line of credit on something that is worthless, or even the same, as the loan, that is where the trouble begins. The easiest way to explain this is to look at the car example. If you have a line of credit for $50,000, you’re not getting a $50,000 car. You are getting a $40,000 plus interest car. Immediately, your car is worth less than the loan that you took on it. On top of that, you have promised your future labor and production on said car. So, you are stealing production from your future to overpay for a product today. To make it even worse, if you were to just save up that $50,000 (put away a fake car payment every month until you have it) not only would you then be able to buy an actual $50,000 car, but it would be better than $50,000 cars made 5 years ago when you started saving (or took that loan). You are burning your candle of future prosperity at both ends. 

Now, back to the government. The government had doomed the United States economy in three major ways regarding debt. First guaranteed loans, second subsidy programs, and finally inflation. Guaranteed loans are absolutely awful. Looking at our current college system, that becomes immediately apparent. Schools, at one time, competed on price. With the government guaranteeing student loan, schools don’t have to compete on price anymore. Schools are bringing in a bunch of kids that don’t have the foresight and knowledge that they have as adults when they graduate, I know I didn’t. They just know they “have to go to school” if they want to make something of themselves. To compete, now schools use facility and degrees. They have expanded their degree selection to every fine art and articulated business idea you can think of all while creating bigger and better facilities. Prices are increasing  so colleges have to get “better” and colleges have to get “better” because prices are going up. Guaranteed housing loans are one of the major factors that played into the 2008 economic crisis, and that was merely a fraction of what current student debt is at. Speaking of the housing crisis, not only are we as a country back at the level of housing debt we were at but were higher in car debt as well. Subsidiary programs are more often than not awful. The entire point of them is to allow people to purchase goods and products they cannot afford. What really makes me scratch my head is that it seems like every time I turn around I hear about a new subsidy program that needs to go into effect because everything is becoming so expensive. Which brings me to my last point, inflation. The more debt there is in the system, the more currency there is to go around. The more currency there is to go around, the more expensive products are to make up for that extra money. Prices are simply the aggregate demand for products in relation to the amount of money that exists. The more money that is borrowed by the government or individuals, the more prices have to adjust to being in a state of equilibrium. As Peter Schiff has said time and time again, we are in a massive debt bubble.

If you take the simple concepts explained in the household example and extrapolate them to the national level, it doesn’t take a rocket sci…….well, economist I guess, to figure out the problem. As a nation, we have sold our future prosperity for luxury today. Not only is this ruining the economy like an underwater stream eroding away the support system of the ground above, but we are doing something much more sinister. When you or I take out a debt, it is generally under the assumption that we will pay it back in our lifetime. The debts we are taking out as a country are stealing prosperity of generations to come that have no say, no power, no knowledge of what they will be faced with. I can discuss the financial and economic ramifications all day, but what we are doing as a country is truly disgusting as there is no way to pay it off in our lifetime. The only solution we have to truly fix this problem for ourselves and generations to come is to voluntarily and honestly face our fiscal problems. Eventually, it will come to the point where it will collapse on its own, but if the idea of economic depression that makes the great depression on the 1930s and the great recession of the late 2000s sounds scary, then you better hope our system doesn’t naturally collapse in our lifetime. Our government and citizens alike have become accustomed to the life of luxury we have. Almost 100% of it is based on short-term revolving debt that continues to get cycles over and over and over. Eventually the credit card companies stop lending, eventually other countries lose faith in the dollar, eventually, the system will fail. Why we choose to operate under this type of system is absolute insanity to me. 

Check out the RudeThoughts social media pages!

[Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts/)

[Twitter] (https://twitter.com/JRudeThoughts)

[Photo] (https://unsplash.com/photos/oN_cUY1v7hs) provided by [Andy Feliciotti] (https://unsplash.com/@someguy) on [Upsplash.com] (https://unsplash.com/)
