---
title: Oh So Stimulating
draft: false
date: '2020-12-24'
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/blogging-guide-xyamk5p3vca-unsplash.jpg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Stimulus
  - Government
  - Economics
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Stimulus checks, the hot topic of politico-economic talk of the day. The saving grace handed down by our ever so generous leaders. But how much are they stimulating? A statistical analysis of the effects of stimulus checks would not only take quite some time but were not really to the point yet where definitive results could be determined. Quantifying “stimulus” is going to be harder, are we talking dollars or overall well-being and life? Scrap that for now, and while we’re at it throw out the non-stimulus political games being played in Washington. Leave this conversation with just $1200, $600, or $2000, or whatever comes next, I argue that not only are the stimulus checks objectively not stimulating, but ultimately will be debilitating.  

Its not your fault, the pandemic, it is not your fault. We can’t let locally owned businesses built on life savings crumble due to an economic storm outside of anyone’s forecasts, predictions, or control. It’s not fair, right? Yes, it is not fair, skipping over the entire “life isn’t fair” rabbit hole, does that mean the stimulus is fair, is not fair, is necessary, where exactly do we pull the trigger on “stimulus” and why there? Those are all truly important questions that take a lot of THINKING, CIVIL DISCUSSION, and LISTENING.  I am not at all against government assistance or stimulus. Take the age-old financial advice that you should “have enough savings to function for at least 6 months in case of an unseen financial burden or hardship”. Well, we’ve been going at this for more than 6 months.  You can’t plan for absolutely everything and everyone needs at least a little help at some point in time in their life. Nothing quite as clear as completely contradictory statements with little to no reason given supporting what has been said. 


Why am I claiming that the stimulus not only isn’t stimulating but even worse will be debilitating? This argument is based off of an economic position that I share with many supporters of the free market, capitalism, monetarists, and more (all those ideas that got us in this mess *insert eyeroll*). That position is that the basic rules of a sound economy aren’t different depending on size, it simply just scales. In simple terms the rules that apply for a financially and “economically” sound household apply for a town, city, government, country, and so on. This goes so hard against the grain as to what is taught in modern economics were not even on the same board anymore. Essentially, in its most basic explanation as the prominent ideology in modern economics, government debt does not matter so long as the country’s output as a whole increase. I am not going to dive in the deeper explanations or support behind that theory, but that is what’s ruling the roost in modern economic theory. So back to stimulus, why is it not stimulating, the short answer is because its being manufactured with money printed out of absolutely nothing. 


Simple thought experiment: what would happen if the government gave every single person in America $1,000,000? Everyone would be a millionaire! But if everyone’s a millionaire then bread is now $50 a loaf, gas is $90 a gallon and your Kohls Kash may hold more street value than your money even though it is 3 days past expiration (just complain, they’ll let you use it). The money that we are getting isn’t coming from anything. Money is a tool, it’s a signal, it is a means to an end, it’s a lot of things but what it is not is wealth. Simply writing numbers on paper and handing it out to everyone creates the false sense of stimulation, when in reality not only is it not stimulating anything at all but it’s also doing harm. This hopefully will become clearer as we move on as borrowed stimulus is possible as well, but that’s not what’s happening here either. 


The stimulus I am behind and agree with comes from a financially sound government that runs surpluses, not deficits. If the government had a rainy-day fund, had a little cash held back for an unseen national emergency then I would be standing on capitol hill, virtually of course, fighting for that help. This works and isn’t inflationary because to save you must hold back some. Saving is less consumption today for more consumption at some point in time in the future. Everyone knows what retirement is, you save a little back each check do in 30 years you can consume without contributing to being productive in the future. This money would have already been accounted for in the economy and been a product of the generation of wealth. This is essentially the closest form of charity a government could supply. Giving from the surpluses of one’s self with the intention of never seeing a return or repayment. That would be exactly what this kind of governmental rainy-day fund would be for. 


There is a second system I would not be completely against, especially in this kind of scenario. If the government legitimately borrowed the money for the stimulus. If they came out and said to the people of the United States that the pandemic has run us dry. As a nation we can borrow the money to simply maintain some level of sanity and help each other out from losing everything, but this will require us as a nation to pay it back in the future once we are past this and more productive. I would not be against that at all. It’s obviously more risky as we don’t know when we would be back to normal, when we would have the capacity to foot the bill, but at least it would be clear and honest. This type of stimulus would work too because by taking on the debt the national would be saying we want to spend today what we earn tomorrow with the assumption, hope, goal, of being more productive at the time of repayment. Offsetting some if the hurt during the bad times at the price of a little luxury when things are back to good. And it is not inflationary because when the debt is repaid it removes the money out of the system that was injected at the time of taking on the debt, so it’s essentially a wash minus the minus the interest paid in the future. Again, so long as productivity is back up, this can balance the interest due, if not exceed it making it worth taking on the initial debt. 


What I’ve discussed is not happening at all, the government is actually doing the absolute worst thing they can do. They’re giving money “for free” by printing it out of thin air. How do they print it though, if you pay attention to financial news at all you would likely say they are borrowing it? This is where economic theory comes into play. They do say they are borrowing it. And how much they borrow doesn’t matter, so long as output increases. That’s in normal government deficit spending, now because of the pandemic they’re saying they have to, they have no choice. But the other half of the problem is the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve is essentially a private bank with one client, the United States Government. When the government says “we need money” they usually put out bonds, government I.O.U.s that can traditionally be at least bought as a hedge against inflation. But the people of the united states don’t have the means to buy as much is needed and foreign countries and investors have already filled their closets with shoe boxes full of these lies or say the return isn’t high enough for the risk. When no one will buy, the Federal Reserve steps in and writes the government a check from a bank account that has no standing balance at all. They just write into existence how much money the government needs and then they hold the markets down with artificially low interest rates (this is what your hear when you hear on the news the fed is **_** percentage). Because if a credit check was run on the United States no one in their right mind would ever loan to them. They’re “borrowing” from an empty bank with no intention of ever repaying, they’re printing money. 


Finally comes the debilitating blow. All of this money creation is inflation. Modern economic schooling has blurred the definition of inflation so that it can better fit the lunacy that is modern economic theory. Inflation is an increase in the money supply, the increases in prices that comes after is the symptom of the casue. It is what we see, feel, and measure, but not the root problem. Unfortunately, just like many other realms of our modern world, subjective desire of what some people wish the world to be and objective reality are terrifyingly far apart. Inflation does not just set upon the entire economy at once and equally. From our best ability to tell it moves from high demand, low cost goods slowly and disproportionately up to high cost low demand goods. This makes sense, pump more money into an economy so every has more money, everyone is still going to compete for the same amount of bread, the same amount of gas, and so on as there is more money overall to compete with. But there very likely will not be any significant, if at all, increase in the number of people out buying luxury cars. Inflation is the invisible tax placed heaviest on those in our society that it hurts the most, those living in poverty and on fixed incomes. All of this money creation, because its being done irresponsibly on lies, unfounded theories, and the not on my watch mentality most politicians hold regarding crisis will ultimately be more damaging than COVID ever will be.

If you found this article interesting please check out some related articles I have written on topics like [Robin Hood Economics](https://rudethoughts.com/thought/2018-robin-hood-economics/), [Why there should be no minimum wage](https://rudethoughts.com/thought/2018-15-now-minimum-wage-i-say-get-rid-of-it-altogether/) and my two part article Imagine Running Your House like the Governemnt, [Part 1](https://rudethoughts.com/ponder/2019-imagine-running-your-house-like-the-government/) and [Part 2](https://rudethoughts.com/thought/2019-the-government-household-part-two-of-imagine-running-a-house-like-the-government/). 

Follow RudeThoughts on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JRudeThoughts), Photo provided by [Blogging Guide](https://unsplash.com/@bloggingguide?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) at [unsplash.com](https://unsplash.com)
