---
title: Money!
draft: false
date: 2018-02-24T00:15:50.059Z
author: Jerry Rude
authorAvatar: uploads/author_JerryRude.jpg
image: /uploads/pexels-photo-210748.jpeg
categories: thought
tags:
  - Money
  - Currency
  - Fiat
  - Policy
  - Bank
comments: true
share: true
type: post
---
Money. The word is used to describe an abundance of different systems, yet all with a unanimous functional understanding of what it is and how it works. If you have money in the bank, what do you have but numbers typed into a computer? Maybe you have a foldable bill, which may seem more legitimate than any computer entry. Upon inspection, you notice that all foldable bills are on the same paper. Wouldn’t this logically suggest they’re all equal in value but less than a computer entry being that they are made of a physical product which required the labor, skill, and supplies to make. We have coins, and out of all moneys coins may be the only type that hold some kind of inherent value outside of the denomination printed on them. These are all common forms of money, but it does not end there. Monopoly money, that certainly can’t be real money. Expect in the world of Hasbro, and the wedge that is fictional economic chaos hammered between your friends and family is certainly temporarily real. Who is to say this is not real money though, all it would take is an agreement amongst two parties that they will both accept the money in exchange for whatever it might be that one has and the other wants. Money, what exactly is it, where did it come from, why do we use what we use? These questions and more will be answered as you read through my work. All with the dual intentions of enlightening the ignorant and leaving them in search of more answers.

“Money is a product of the specialized economy in which few, if any, participants are self-sufficient and a person’s labors are not directly transferable into satisfaction of his wants. Money is an invention. It expedites the transfer of goods and services among persons.” (Kaufman 14). This quote comes from a book, published in 1975, my father gave me that he purchased for a college class. Though that seems like a good while back for some, in the context of defining money, it is a relatively universal idea behind what money is and has been. So far as I know, money does not exist anywhere in the world except the real of human life. It is not natural in the sense that no form of it is found in nature. Tradeoffs are generally made, an extremely simplified explanation would be male lions protecting their pride for the security of guaranteed reproduction, female lions hunt for protection. So where does the roll of money come in, why can’t we all work some system like this instead? Look back at Kaufman’s statement, “a person’s labors are not directly transferable into satisfaction of his wants”. Say you are a farmer, you grow and raise food. If you want a house, you must go find a carpenter (these examples are not exactly what you would need, they are simplified for ease of explanation). Not only do you need a carpenter, but you need one that wants the food you produce. Then once on is found you must settle a price that both of you believe to be fair. But what if it is spring and you crop just went into the ground. What will you do while you wait for your new house. Also, maybe the carpenter needs a plumber and excavating tools? He would then need to find someone with what he needs, and their wants would have to be what he has as well. Finally, a system would need instituted that dictates, 100 ears of corn equals one wooden chair, equals one hour of plumbing labor, equals ½ hour excavation tool rental. In an economy with only 500 goods, the number of equal exchange dictations would be 124,750. Money solves this problem. 
Anything can be money, wooden chairs, metal (as we commonly see), toilets, sand, literally anything. There are commonly agreed on characteristics that usually rule out basically all but a few options. I will be speaking of money and currency in this next section. I will describe the definitional difference but will not further elaborate. They are two different objects, if you wish to know more keep an eye out for an upcoming daily ponder or short article focused on this specifically. Definitionally we use currency more than we use money, but for the sake of simplicity and common dialect, I will use the word money for the entirety of this article.  The characteristics of money; a medium of exchange, a unit of account, portability, durability, divisibility, fungibility, and a store of value. Currency holds the same definition, except a store of value is not included as it is in the definition of money (Maloney). A medium of exchange, this basically means its universally excepted in its economy (US dollars, monopoly money, etc.). a unit of account, x dollars equals this product. Portable, you can take it places easily. As stated previously toilets could be money, but if something cost 30 toilets it would be difficult getting them there. Durable, you do not want money that constantly breaks down and needs replaced. Paper money is reinforced to help lengthen its longevity. Divisible, money is divisible into smaller increments to a degree, you wouldn’t want it infinitely divisible. Fungible, this basically means that $5 in my hand in Ohio is around the same value as $5 in someone’s hand in California. A store of value, this is where the US dollar gets a little interesting. Since first being regulated and controlled by the federal government (states and banks previously designed and created their own money, which was a claim for specific amounts of gold the banks and states held) the US dollar has lost over 90% of its buying power. Does this mean it can be used as a store of value? Does this make the US dollar money or currency?  If you devote just a bit of time to think about money, its not much of a surprise as to why gold and silver have been the historical go to as a source of money. They follow all of the characteristics generally used to describe money, also they are not so rare tiny amounts are extremely valuable and they are not so common that you need pounds of them to buy a loaf of bread. 

Another property that should be incorporated into money is value. Adam Smith wrote in The Wealth of Nations that “The word value, (in an economic setting) is to be observed, has two different meanings, and sometimes expresses the utility of some particular object, and sometimes the power of purchasing other goods which the possession of that object conveys. The one may be called ‘value in use’; the other ‘value in exchange.’” Reading late 18th century economic works can be difficult at times. He goes on to provide an example though, “Nothing is more useful than water: but it will purchase scarce anything;…” (Smith 31). Compare that to our money today, it certainly has no value in use, other than maybe to burn in high enough physical quantities as a heat source. Does it have value in exchange? At one point in time it did, and there could be an argument made siding that this property no longer exists, for the US dollar at least. Is there truly a value in exchange in the dollar anymore, or do we use it simply because we know everyone else will use it, and they use it because they know everyone else will use it? This may be the dollars strength, but also the weakness that brings it down. The US dollar is created many ways, but generally all by banks. Major banks buy US bonds (a glorified IOU) from the treasury in a kind of auction house type system as they bonds need repaid with interest. The banks then takes those bonds to the US Federal Reserve who buy the bonds with a check book that has a $0.00 bank account (that’s a conversation for another day). They then take the money and disperse it out to smaller banks. In the end the US Federal reserve holds the bond that the US government must pay back. If every bond created must be paid back plus interest, every dollar that exists has interest due on it. This means if every dollar was used to pay for the bonds that originated it, there would still be a balance due but no money, and money would need to be borrowed to pay for the remaining interest. The Second major creator of money is the way the banking system works. When you deposit your money, the bank is not required to keep it all. They know that every customer does not use all of their money at the same time. So they take a faction of every deposit and loan that out to borrowers plus interest. The most common reserve required is about 10% (Reserve), so let’s use that in a simplified example. You deposit $100 in the bank. The bank takes 90% of it and loans it out. Your account still says $100, the new persons account says $90 and the banks total from depositors say $190. Then that deposit of $90 has the same reserve requirement, so $81 of it is loaned out. All bank accounts show their totals as $100-90-$81, and the banks total from depositors says $271. This can go on and on until eventually $100 of physical money is backing $1000 of electronic money typed into a computer. This is, like other examples, extremely simplified, but its purpose is to have a basic understanding of the amount physical money to digital money that it backs. Back to the purpose of this section, does the US dollar have any value of exchange anymore? I think if we could see all the money that existed, physical and digital, we would treat it more like fire starter than money. 

Money, we’ve discussed a little bit about what it is and where it comes from. Its interesting to think about how something that has no inherent of useful value rules our world so prominently. There is literally massive amounts of money, backed by nothing but the word of the government, and everyone is trying to get their hands on as much of it as they can. Yes I said that right, backed by the promise from the government, that it just has value. Money was once backed by gold. When money was first created it was nothing more than a claim check for gold in the bank. Its purpose was so that you didn’t have to carry all your gold around, you could go to the bank and deposit your gold and they would give you a claim check, an IOU. People started trading their IOU’s and the banks had no problem honoring them because they knew somewhere there was a bank that had the actual gold in it. There are multiple reasons why America went off the gold standard, and that will likely be discussed in another article. Since 1933 American dollars have been off the gold backed standard, and since 1971 basically all world currencies have been off the gold standard. We literally trade pieces of paper around to each other that just have numbers on them, backed by nothing, and because they are printed by governments we trust them. Even that is coming to a change, crypto currencies have been taking financial markets by storm, making and loosing millions along the way. A digital money system may be the future of our monetary world, but for right now it looks more like a casino. Get in at the right time and you can retire, but if you’re wrong, you can lose it all. Money is a very interesting phenomenon of humanity. Money history, theory, policy, and foreign study are all fascinating, each with their own interesting and unique lessons to be learned.   I will leave you with this, which I find to be the most interesting fact of all; the longest any fiat(by decree or arbitrary order)  currency system has lasted is about 1250 years. That is the British pound that was created around the mid eighth century. During this time countless fiat currencies have failed over and over again. Silver and gold, they’ve been accepted and traded as a form of money for over 5000 years. Furthermore, most now fiat currency systems were started by gold and silver and then pushed off the system and truly became fiat. Money is just a simplified medium of exchange, it exists only in the trust of the users. Money is an idea, a promise, that’s it. 


<sub><sup>Kaufman, George G. Money and the financial system: fundamentals. Rand McNally College   Publishing Company, 1975.
</sub></sup>

<sub><sup>Maloney, Mike. “Money vs Currency - Hidden Secrets Of Money Ep 1 - Mike Maloney.” YouTube, YouTube, 26 Feb. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=DyV0OfU3-FU.
</sub></sup>

<sub><sup>“Reserve Requirements.” Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 3 Nov. 2017, www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/reservereq.htm.
</sub></sup>

<sub><sup>Smith, Adam, and Edwin Cannan. An inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations the wealth of nations. Modern Library, 1994.
</sub></sup>
